ac murray Lo 3

t f%iEfé§EAIrl. - APRIL 1963

 

New York University
School of Education

Department of Physical Education, Health and Recreation

INTERN/l "ON/ll FOIK DANCE
WORKSHOP

July l5-20I I963
at

NEW YORK UNIVERSITY CAMP

Holmes, New York

Professional Preparation Programs Put 3/  in his eye“
. laughter 1n hlS vorce — warmth

in your heart.

 

in
Physical Education, Health, Recreation
July I-August 9, 1963
leading to the MA, EdD, and PhD degrees

International Workshop in
Comparative Physical Education, Health and Recreation

\ Mfrs. of the
Finest Playground l
1 Equipment. Write :I
for Catalogs. 

For Information About Other I
Programs write to :

Dr. Raymond Weiss. Chairman '
Dept. of Phy. Ed.. Health &

2::2:r.:n....... ' RECREAIIONEQUIPMENTWQORP. J:

New York University

ggzhggeioa aware Dept. R43 — 724 W. 8th St. — Anderson, Indiana

For Information About
Folk Dance Workshcrp
Write to:

Dr. Gladys Andrews
School of Education
New York University
Washington Square
New York 3, N. Y.

 

 

 

SPACE CAPSULE osows

New from MEXICO FORGE -— Space Capsule —
Here’s a real climber for small astronauts. Sitting

in the seal and looking to the sky ives the kids
a feeling of the "blast off," then 1 ey climb up
through the capsule tOp and down the 12' stain-
less steel chute to a happy landing. Built of the
best material available, this Space Capsule will
last for years. The entire capsule is made of gal-
vanized pipe securely electric welded. Side panel
lettered to your specifications. Space capsule
(Model #680) also available with ladder in place
of stainless chute.

BUCKIN’ BRONCO 400

All children from toddlers through iunior age will
find hours of delight in this imaginative Buckin'
Bronco. Like all Mexico Forge equipment, it is
made of the finest materials to provide years of
dependable, safe service. This Buckin’ Bronco is
uniquely designed with a Spring activator so that
one child may ride alone. Approximate over-all
length, ll'; Height, 4'; teeter pipe, 31/2" 0D.
Pipe SUpported on two heavy duty sealed ball
bearing pillow blocks, 11/4" shaft and two heavy
duty springs. Brightly painted red with white

polka dots.

Write for FREE literature on our complete line
of Engineered Park and Playground Equipment.

THE MEXICO FORGE, INC.

MEXICO, PENNSYLVANIA

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

     
 
  
  

Re-Bound-Net

Perfect indoors, it’s silent . . . Perfect outdoors, weatherproof
' Tennis, baseball, lacrosse, softball, soccer, volleyball

' Simply tilt the frame to change height or distance of re-bound
—increase the net tension adjustment for extra speed.
—Hard or soft rebounds (as short as 5' if desired)
—Deep rebounds (40' plus)—high rebounds (overheads)
—Perfect returns for volleying (natural volley tilning)

 

' Play both sides at the same time — double utility. on fhe play_fie|d

' Many game possibilities — with scoring. One ball, 2 players. (Shown with our 'Ready-Nei' post unit)
' Small area versatility — 15'x20' provides ample space. a a -3 i ’3

' Light, portable, rustproof . . . free standing . . . folds flat. , «l i

. ‘ I

10‘ high (telescopes to 61/2') . . . 10' or 20' long units.

The timing is right — provides a natural game interval.
Net actually soaks up time — allows a get-ready pause.

The action of the Ball-Boy Re~Bound-Net is in no way similar to, and
cannot be accurately comparcd with, the common backboard or wall. The
net provides an entirely new hitting experience. The difference is a
matter of “Timing”. The Re-Bound-Net actually lengthens the rebound
interval by seconds (as compared with a backboard) without reducing
ball velocity. Thus, it provides a “sct-up ball” that even a novice can
stroke consecutively. The return from a backboard or similar hard sur- l
face has always been much too soon for anyone but the skilled player.
The Re-Bound-th has overcome this difficulty and made rebound tennis
practical for players of every skill level. It allows the player to practice
vigorously and hit hard in a limited space.

 

Answers all the obiections to backboards —- I/ | 0 the cost.

by BALL-BOY  

-------------------_ _—-----_- ---—-----—----‘ --_----1

 

r---__-_--______

swam ° 0
‘ Hm BALI—"BOY CO. , INC. 26 Milburn Street. Bronxvulle. N. Y.
REBOUND-N ET (Designer. Manufacturer. sole Purchasing Scurcol

Nome ____________________ Pos.

Schfool
Street _________.___ City — State

PRIL, 1963 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 157

    

FOr FAST action --
clip this coupon

 

 

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
A

HE C REATION

APRIL 1963

 

GENERAL

PROGRAM

ADMINISTRATION

MONTHLY DIGEST

158

VOL. LVI, NO. 4

Space for the Basic Urge To Be Ornery (Editorial) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betty F urst

Is modern youth doomed to frustration?

When School’s Out . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Playgrounds hum with new programs

The 45th National Recreation Congress . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Information on St. Louis hotels . . . make your reservations

Historical Background of the Relationships of thc NRA and ARS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Over two decades of experience

Public Relations on the Playground . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Albert Howard
The leader reflects the recreation department

Year-Round Tennis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Mel Wade
“Know-how” develops an extended and exceptional program
Starting from Scratch . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .lerry Kerr

A one-man department’s successful use of volunteers

Let’s Have a Circus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Glenn (lack) Haskin

An electrifying climax to the summer season

Free Men Accept the Challenge of Free Time . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Anne L. New
Discussion groups define our national purpose ‘

Parkland Prospecting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .M. D. Morris

Space-age technology gets us back to nature

Is Your Playground Surfacing Safe? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . George D. Butler
Testing protective cushioning materials

Notes for the Administrator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Far-reaching decisions

Games That Teach Fair Play . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Rhoda W. Bacnieister
Being a good sport does not come naturally

160 As We Go To Press 161
Market News 200 Resource Guide 201

Letters Arts and Crafts Corncr 176

RECREATION is published monthly except July and August by the National Recreation
Association, a service organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 8 West Eighth
Street, New York 11, New York, is on file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers’
Guide. Subscription $5.00 a year. Canadian and foreign subscription rate $5.75. Re-en-
tered as second-class matter April 25, 1950, at the Post OEce in New York, New York,
under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided
for in Section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, autborized May 1, 1924. Microfilms of current

issues available from University Microfilms, 313 N. First Street, Ann Arbor, Michigan.

Copyright. 1963. by the National
Recreation Association, Incorporated

Printed in the U.S.A.

 
  
 

BESS

SSOCIATION
OF
AMERICA

 

PRICE 60c

163

164

168

170

169

174

178

186

189

190

193

195

196

chorter’s Notebook 198
Rx for thc Ill and Handicappcd 203 New Publications 205

DUCATIONAL The article: herein

printed are the expres-
sion of the writer: and
not a statement of pattcy
of the Nationat Recrea-
tion Association.

RECREATION

RECREATION

 

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST
Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON

Assistant Editor, ELVIRA DELANY

Associate Editor for Program
VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

Business Manager
FRANK ROWE

A dvertising Manager
ESTA GLUCK

 

On the Cover
PLANNING IS IMPORTANT. It is

advisable to have a competent landscape
artist design your recreation areas. In
this recreation-school center, the play-
ground is five acres, the school site
three and a half acres. Design by G.
Leslie Lynch, National Recreation As-
sociation area, facilities, and survey
consultant.

Next Month

Articles on programs with the aging
and one on planning community bi-
cycle safety activities, in observance of
Senior Citizens’ Month and National
Bicycle Month, respectively. The im-
portance of long-range community plan-
ning is discussed in Part I of a two-part
article, “What Makes a Good Com-
munity Survey,” by Merrill F. Krug-
hoff, director of the Institute Of
Community Studies, United Community
Funds and Councils of America. (Part
II of Mr. Krughofji’s article will ap-
pear in June.) Also, you won’t want
to miss: “Municipal Sports Programs
and Policies,” which reports in detail
the results of the 1962 survey of Na-
tional Recreation Association Service
Affiliates; a good “how-to” article on
floodlighting for evening programs by
Joseph Curtis, commissioner of recrea-
tion and parks in White Plains, New
York; two pages with pictures of the
latest information about the 45th Na-
tional Recreation Congress in St. Louis;
3 discussion of “Fund Raising Through
Refreshment Operations”; an article on
the value of participating in a local

“Career Day” by Gordon D. Hunsaker

Of Coronado, California; and many
others.

Photo Credits
Page 166, Don McKee, Montclair,

New Jersey; 197, Recreation Associa-
tion, Lancaster, Pennsylvania; 199,
(Woody) George Hamilton, Miami
Beach, Florida, News Bureau.

APRIL, 1963

 

NOW! A REGULATION-SIZE TRAMPOllNE
a M 1/2 P RIC E

 

PERFECT FOR CAMPS, RECREATION
CENTERS, AND BOYS CLUBS

0 Lifetime nickel chrome plated
frame (9' x 15‘)

0 Our best nylon web bed
(6' x 12’)

0 Plated steel springs

' Complete set of extra wide
frame pads

WRITE FOR FREE BROCHURE

 

  930 27th Avenue S.W., Cedar Rapids, Iowa

SCOREBOARDS

for all sports by All-American

Schools, parks, major and minor
league stadiums, coast-to—coast score
accurately and dependably with
ALL-AMERICANscoreboards.
Models for all indoor and outdoor

sports available. Custom designs on
request. For FREE ILLUS-

TRATED CATALOG and prices at
no obligation contact:

All-A merican Service Desk

rug? 

. general indicator
corporation

271 MADISON AVENUE - NEW YORK 16

 
  

  

1001‘

KWlK-BIIT,

mm-m“--““- ‘

Please send me .... .. copies of FOUNDATION OF CREATIVITY by Mary Lee Marksberry

 a  _ S193.
sun  “*2: 

 

 

.I it?"
INC. Box 6834, Dallas I9, Tex.

------------------m--“-"---------m—“

Harper & Row, Publishers Announces

FOUNDATION OF CREATIVITY

MARY I.EE MARKSBERRY

Here is a practical approach for developing creativity
in all areas of education at the elementary-school
level. The book is designed to provide both an in-
tellectual base for structuring creative experiences
and a practical help in using such a base. The dis-
cussion ranges from the meaning of creative writing
to art contests and competitive exhibits. Extensive
illustrative material. Suggested readings. 178 pages.

$1.95

at $1.95 each.

City .................................................................... .. .

I enclose .................. ..Send C.O.D.  .. . ..

School Affiliation . 

Hum-m"
)-
O.
O.
'1
I'D
In
In

Harper & Row, Publishers, 49 East 33d Street. New York 16, New York

m------“--------“-

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

 

 

 

   
 

llIIIllllllllllllllllllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII "

        
 

 

JUDO SUITS ° KARATE SUITS
But Quallty —- Lowest Prlcus
Honda Associates, Inc.

50 West 47th St.. New York 36. N. Y.
Write for Free Catalog

    
     

     
  

J

 

DIRECTORS . . .

CAMP AND PLAYGROUND
IMPRINIED T-Shirls — Sweal Shirl: — Jackets
AWARDS — INCENTIVES — MONEY-MAKERS

0 Write for complete Free Catalog 0

American Knitwear 8. Emblem Mfrs.
PIalstow 4. New Hampshlre

 
  
 

    

 

 

15% discount to teachers

n n . . n n n n o - o n . - . . g . . . . . . - g g n n o o o .0

"---- m-mv-v-vvv-v-«rvvvvv-vv-m

---m----------m-“‘

159

 

Add us to your staff
by renting films from '.

SWANK’S :

Write for our latest list of new releases
of wholesome, entertaining movies.

Keep posted on what’s new in 16mm
sound movies. Mail this coupon today.

El send list of new movie releases
El add my name to your mailing list

Name
Address

City_____,_______$tate

SWANK Motion Pictures, Inc.

Ray Swank. President
621 North Skinker, St. Louis 30, Missouri

 

.vl

AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA

llNlDlllNl IL©R|E

7 V ' CRAFTS 0 KlTS 0 LITERATURE
0 SUPFLIES ' COSTUMES ' PRINTS
W
a
Address

Aulhentie and 'eomplele for beginners
and experts. Shipped lmmedialeiy.
Since I927/Post: New York Oily
x City
"VVVVVVVYVYVWVVVV'VVVVV

Museum: Monroe. N. Y.
PLUME TRADING CO.
CATA LOG!
48 PAGES.

 

 

Dept. 2535, Box 585, Monroe, N. Y.

Send 25¢ lor tines] ealalon and priee
lisl. Betunded will: order.

Name

AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA

State

<A

 

     
  

Most Complete Source
of Gymnasium 8- Field
Equipment.

      
  

E I UIPMENT ,.

' GYMNASTIC SUPPLY co.. INC.
250 West Sixth St, San Pedro, Calif.

160

 

‘ VVVVWVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV

LETTERS

 

Curling, Anyone?
Sir:

Against the advice of many old-time
recreation administrators, we started
the game of curling in Euclid. We had
been warned that it would be very difli-
cult to curl on an uncovered municipal
artificial ice rink. The difhculties we
ran into quickly subsided because of the
extreme enthusiasm citizens showed to-
ward the game, even though it is a new
game here and we could only borrow
enough rocks from the American Curl-
ing Association for four teams. Next
year we plan to program the ice so we
can alternate these stones in order to
get more individuals participating. In-
quiries ran high, but, with the time
available because of other programing
on the ice, individuals other than the
first twenty had to he asked to wait un-
til next year to curl.

When curling enthusiast Frank Su-
lentieh came into the Euclid recreation
office last September asking the depart-
ment to plan, organize, supervise, and
sponsor the activity of curling, the ini-
tial action taken by the department was
to announce the new activity to the local
weekly newspaper. The response was so
favorahle that curling was added to the
Winter program. Laurie Carlson, a
founder and past-president of the Amer-
ican Curling Foundation, mailed us two
curling films to orient the twenty future
curlcrs. After the showing. two mem-
bers of the Cleveland Skating Club gave
a brief discussion on how the game is
played.

lie-creation Dircctor C. E. Orr de-
cided that free ice time could be allo-
cated these participants; however, each
member must obtain a rcgistration card
and season’s pass. The fee was $11.00
for each curler.

At the organizational meeting, the
club president announced that the Amer-
ican Curling Foundation had dccided to
loan the club sixteen pairs of rocks. The
members assessed themselves an annual
dues of $5.00 to cover any miscellane-
ous items to be purchased.

The second phase in providing this
activity was preparing the ice sheet.
Since we were unable to acquire any
knowledge concerning the painting of
an uncovered municipal ice sheet, we
used trial-and-error method. Initially,
we decided to paint the entire concrete
pad white, then paint the curling lines
and circles atop the white paint. A two-
inch ice sheet was to he laid over the
painting. Before the ice was able to be
laid, we had a rainstorm and the paint-
ing was ruined. With “never-say-die”

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

determination, we tried an alternate
plan. Because of the expense involved
in the white paint (Polar Ice), the rec-
reation department was unable to pur-
chase more white paint, the most desir-
able to use. The only choice we had was
to lay an inch of ice over the pad. Then
we painted the circles and lines. We
found the best plan for painting the ice
for curling to be the use of broken lines
and circles instead of solid ones since
solid lines increase the absorption rate
more than broken ones. We painted the
twelve-inch, eight-inch, and four-inch
circles hlack, blue, and brown respec-
tively. The hog lines. center house lines,
and side lines were painted black. Our
maintenance men prepared three curl-
ing sheets on our 85’-by-185’ ice pad.

The final preparation before play was
making “hacks.” We used 2”-by-£l"-by-
6” boards cut at a 45° angle in front,
covered with firehose to afford better
footing. During our first session on the
ice, it was readily seen that the firchose
would freeze and not give one substan-
tial footing. After this first scssion, Mr.
Sulentich, the club president, who is a
machinist, made a front for the wooden
hacks by securing a 11/3”-by-4” piece
of perforated steel to the wood. These
hacks were secured into the ice by screw-
ing threc 3”-by-%" screws into the
wood one and a half inches. This al-
lowed one and a half inches protruding
from the base of the hacks. With a port-
able electric drill, wc drilled holes into
the ice, then placed the hacks into the
holes and completed the menial task by
pouring water around the sides of the
backs to acquire cohesion for the backs
to the ice.

Who says curling can’t be done on an
uncovered municipal ice rink? We did
it!

JOHN V. TERANCO, Recreation Super-

viser, Enefid, Ohio.

Valuable Information

Sirs:

We have received a copy of T/tc Day
Camp Program, ably written by Vir-
ginia Musselman [director of the Na-
tional Recreation Association. Program
Service] and find this book to be most
useful and informative. We highly rec-
ommend those responsible for conduct-
ing day-camp programs to purchase this
well-written hook. It contains much val-
uable information.

KENNETH A. HILL, Superintendent of
Recreation, Santa Rosa, California.

0 For a review of Miss Musselmon's
book see Page 205.——Ed.

RECREATION

 

AS WE GO TO PRESS

 

) You ARE vaITED! All Associates and
Affiliates of the National Recreation
Association are invited to Washington,
D.C. in June to attend a national con-
ference on litter-prevention and beauti-
fication sponsored by Keep America
Beautiful, Inc. The three-day confer-
ence, at the Shoreham Hotel, is sched-
uled for June 23-25. Secretary of Com-
merce Luther H. Hodges will speak at
the opening luncheon. Other high gov-
ernment oilicials, civic leaders, and
representatives of labor, industry, and
service organizations will participate in
the meeting, which is expected to attract
some five hundred persons from all over
the country.

Topics to be explored in a series of
workshOps will include “What States
Can Do to Prevent Litter,” “Organizing
for Community Action,” and “Anti-
Litter Projects for Conservationists and
Sportsmen.” Other sessions will take up
“School and Youth Group Activities,”
“The Role of Business and Labor in
the Litter-Prevention Movement,” and
“Government Action in Anti-Litter
Laws in Fire Prevention and in Public
Health.”

For registration forms and further
information, address inquiries to Miss
Laura Freed, Keep America Beautiful,

Inc., 99 Park Avenue, New York 16.

) ATTENTION, AIR FORCE PERSONNEL:
In a letter signed by Colonel R. Pankey,
USAF. Chief, Personnel Services Divi-
sion, Directorate of Military Personnel,
commanders are encouraged to author-
ize the attendance, of personnel directly
responsible for the Air Force recreation
program, at the 45th National Recrea-
tion Congress, September 29-October 4,
at the Chase-Park Plaza Hotel, St. Louis,
Missouri. The Congress affords an op-
portunity for personnel to keep abreast
of the latest trends and contemporary
advances in the recreation movement.
Several sessions will be directly related
to military recreation. The knowledge
and information gained by delegates
can be applied advantageously in plan-
ning activities and facilities and in
selecting equipment for the recreation
program. In order that Air Force recre-
ation programs may function to the best
interest of the personnel. it is necessary
that responsible individuals be offered
opportunities to enhance their profes-
sional background.

Military personnel attending the Con-
gress must comply with AFR 35-14.
Civilian representatives may attend in
accordance with Paragraph 11. Chapter

3. AFM 40-10. (See also Page 168).

) SMALL-CRAFT SCHOOLS. Over thirty-
scven million persons will go boatmg

APRIL, 1963

011 more than a casual basis this summer
and knowledge of safe boating handling
is increasingly vital. As part of its con-
tinuous program of small-craft safety,
the American Red Cross again this year
is scheduling instructor training in boat-

ing skills at selected camp sites across
the nation.

Small Craft Schools are scheduled as
follows: Culver Military Academy,
Culver, Indiana, June 11-21; Dr. John-
son’s Camp, Raymond, Maine, June 12-
22; The Elms Camp, Hammondsport,
New York, June 12-22; Camp Wab-
Kon-Dah, Rocky Mount, Missouri, Au-
gust 21-31; Camp Green Cove, Tuxedo,
North Carolina, June 4-14.

Aquatic Schools with Small Craft
Instructor Courses are scheduled as fol-
lows: Lake Murray State Park, Camp
No. 2, Ardmore, Oklahoma, June 2-12
(boating instructor only); Owasippee
Scout Camps (Camp Stuart), White-
hall, Michigan, June 12-22 (canoeing
instructor only).

Red Cross aquatic schools, covering
swimming and water safety instruction,
will also be set up across the country.
Check with your Red Cross area office
for schedules.

) A NEW PROGRAM OF HOME STUDY in
creative writing is being offered by the
Writers Workshop of the State Univer-
sity of Iowa, 10 Old Capitol, Iowa City,
in cooperation with the Britannica
Schools Division of Encyclopaedia Brit-
annica Press, Inc., 14 East Jackson
Boulevard, Chicago. The initial course
in fiction writing, the first home-study
course in the workshop’s 27-year his-
tory, has ust been announced by work-
shop director Paul Engle. A second
course, poetry writing, is planned for
next fall, and advanced courses are also
under consideration.

Workshop staff members will correct
the lessons and comment on students’
writing. Tuition for the course is $150
and no college credit is given. There are
two different plans of payment.

THINGS YOU SHOULD KNOW

 

) A FIVE-MAN STUDY TEAM has been
appointed by the U.S. Secretaries of
Agriculture and Intcrior to explore
resource potentials of federal lands in
the North Cascades Mountains section
of Washington State in order to recom-
mend the form of management and ad-
ministration for it which would best
serve the public interest. The North
Cascades long has heen the subject of
conflicting proposals for development
by outdoor, commercial, and other in-
terested groups. Almost all of the area

involved lies within designated National
Forests.

The study team will be headed by
Dr. Edward C. Crafts, director of the
Bureau of Outdoor Recreation, Depart-
ment of the Interior. Serving with him
will be two men from the Department
of Agriculture, Dr. George A. Selke,
consultant to the Secretary of Agricul-
ture, and Arthur Greeley, deputy chief
of the United States Forest Service, and
two from the Department of the In-
terior, Henry Caulfield, assistant direc-
tor of the Resources Program staff, and
George B. Hartzog, J r., associate direc-
tor of the National Park Service.

) AN ALL-TIME men of 88,457,100
visits to National Parks and other areas
administered by the National Park
Service were recorded in 1962, accord-
ing to the U.S. Department of the In-
terior. The 1962 total showed an in-
crease of 9,417,300—eleven percent
over the 79,039,800 recorded in 1961.
National Park Service Director Conrad
L. Wirth attributed the new record to
the increasing popularity of outdoor
recreation and the service’s Mission 66.
a long-range conservation and improve-
ment program ( see “New Frontiers for

Mission 66,” RECREATION, January
1962).

) HOBBIES have become big business,
with industry expecting 1963 retail sales
to pass the half-billion dollar mark, ac-
cording to a recent Associated Press rc-
lease. Albert H. Redles of Philadelphia.
president of the Hobby Industry Asso-
ciation of America, said the growth of
the hobby business mirrors the growth
of our teenage population both in Size
and in intcrests.

Surveys indicate that sixty percent
of the hobby business is concentrated in
the ten to eighteen age bracket. Sales
begin to lag among those in their twen-
ties. When people reach their thirties.
they again become avid hobbyists. with
their interests in crafts and hobbies in-
creasing as they grow older.

One large firm. that made its name
in trains, now finds that the minia-
ture hotrod custom automobile has sur-
passed trains as a youth and adult
hobby intercst. Trains are now second
and science kits. third. Plastic kits of
all types have revolutionized the hobby
field in the past five years. giving it a
retail market value of around $130,000.-
000 a year.

} THE 313T ANNUAL Field Science and
Conservation Workshop will he held
in Santa Barbara. California. July 29.
under thc auspices of the University of
California Extcnsion Scrvice. For
further information and a copy of a

161

brochure giving full details, write to
University Extension, University of

California, Santa Barbara, University,

California.

D A NATURALISTS’ ORGANIZATION has
been formed by over seventy people
representing national, state, and local
park and interpretive programs, accord-
ing to Park Practice Grist, bulletin of
the National Conference of State Parks
in cooperation with the National Park
Service. Its title is the Association of
Interpretive Naturalists, “for advance-
ment of education and development of
skills in the art of interpreting the na-
tural environment as an instrumcnt of
service in the public welfare.” President
Harold E. Wallin, staff naturalist for the
Cleveland Metropolitan Park District,
announces that several membership
categories are available for naturalists,
outdoor education and recreation inter-
ests. For further information, write to
John D. Kason, 2048 Standard Build-
ing, Cleveland 13, Ohio. The association
has just published its first ncwsletter,
and copies can be obtained from the
editor, Stanton C. Ernst, Park Natural-
ist, Brookside Nature Center, \Vheaton,
Maryland.

The March/April issue of Grist is

also inaugurating a new feature section
entitled “Speaking of Interpretation—”
in light of “a general recognition of the
growing importance of interpretation in
park work.” Equally urgent today is the
need for interpretation of recreation
work nationally. This is one of the big
johs currently facing the recreation

field.

) TIIE CITIZENS COMMITTEE for Out-
door Recreation Resources Review
Commission was organized January 31,
1963 as a eommittee of the American
Conservation Association, Inc. “to help
meet the growing outdoor recreation
needs of the American people,” accord-
ing to The Congressional Record. Laur-
ance Rockefeller. who served so ably as
chairman of the commission, has agreed
to serve as honorary chairman of the
citizens committee. Mr. Rockefeller said
the committee will:

0 Publish and distribute informative
nIatcrial, including digests of Outdoor
Recreation Resources Review Commis-
sion’s 246-page summary report and
twenty-seven background study reports,
the most thorough and objective studies
ever made in this field.

0 Provide information on how eitizens
and citizen-groups ean assist and par-
ticipate.

0 Cooperate with other organizations
in developing their own programs eon-
sistent with the eommittee’s purpose.

0 Analyze and offer comment when
appropriate on prOposals and actions
related to outdoor recreation.

162

'I i I

0 ORRC’S Outdoor Recreation for
America is to be reprinted and will be
available from the Government Printing
Office around April 15, the Department
of the Interior announced recently. This
rcport, reprinted by the Department’s
Bureau of Outdoor Recreation, is the
result of a three-year study undertaken
by the commission at the request of
President Kennedy and Congress and
is a eomprehensive review of the na-
tion’s outdoor recreation needs and re-
sources. It contains more than fifty
recommendations in five major cate-
garies aimed at assuring present and
future generations permanent access to
their outdoor heritage. Outdoor Recre-
ation for America will be available from
the Superintendent of Documents, Gov-
ernment Printing Office, Washington

25, D.C., for $2.50.

} FROM A NEw HEADQUARTERS at 2401
Grand Avenue, Kansas City 8, Missouri.
the People-to-People Program to create
world friendship and international un-
derstanding, which has been underway
for six years, is now putting out an
attractive quartcrly magazine called
People. This is available to members
only, but dues are very reasonable;
$5.00 annually for charter membership,
sixty percent of which is for suhscrip-
tion to PeOple-to-Pcople publications.
College-student memberships are $2.00,
high-school student, $1.00.

Among friends of the recreation field
it ho are active in this movement is J. C.
Hall, chairman of the exccutive commit-
tee of People-to-People. In the Winter
1963 issue of People, Mr. Hall cxplains
three key programs that are now under-
way: the University Program directcd
toward the seventy thousand students
from abroad who are now studying
here; the Classroom Exchange Pro-
gram, designed to introduce the young
people of the world to each other; and
the Citizens Program planned to en-
courage adults—workers, farmers, busi-
nessmen, professionals. housewives, re-
tired people— to play their role in the
development of international under-
standing and peace. He points out that
cach person, working as an individual,
can find thousands of ways in which to
get to know people of other lands.
Pcoplc-tO-People wants to have a ehap-
ter in every community across America.

Joscph Prendergast, executive direc-
tor of the National Recreation Associa-
tion. has been serving on the PeOple-to-
People civic, sports, and youth activities
committees. L. P. Cookingham, formcr
city manager of Houston. Texas, has
been recently appointed director of the
People-to-PeOple program.

) A NATIONAL INSTITUTE on eampus
safety, at Iowa State University in Ames,

July 8-17, will examine practical meas-

ures to reduce accidental injuries to
students and faculty. The institute is
sponsored by the Accident Prevention
Division of the U.S. Public Health Serv-
ice and the Campus Safety Association
of the School and College Conference
of the National Safety Council. It will
be conducted by the Department of
Psychology and the Engineering Exten-
sion Service of the university.

The institutc will demonstrate tech-
niques in organizing and administering
campus safety programs. The faculty
will be drawn from universities with
outstanding safety programs and from
national and state groups specializing
in campus safety problems.

The registration fee for the institute
will be less than $100, including pro—
gram cxpenses, housing and meals for
the ten-day period. Inquiries for further
information should be made to the En-
gincering Extension Service, Iowa State
Univcrsity. Ames, Iowa. The National
Safety Congress School and College
Sessions will be held at thc Knicker-
hocker Hotel, Chicago, Octobcr 28-31,
1963.

Coming Events

The NationaI CatlIoIic Theatre
Conference Fourteenth Biennial
Convention, Dcauville Hotel, Mi-
ami Bcaclt, Florida, August 26, 1963.
Further information and registration
blanks are available from the Con-

ference at 3625 Twelfth Strect, N.E.,
Washington 17, D.C.

The 26th Annual NationaI Folk
FestivaI, Amphitheatre, Devon
Park, Covington, Kentucky, May 16-
18, sponsored by The Kentucky
Council of Performing Arts, Dan-
ville, Kentucky and The National
Folk Festival Association, Inc.,
Washington. D.C. Festival Head-
quarters arc: Pioneer Playhousc,
Danville, Kentucky.

Mental Health W’eek, April 23 -
May 4-, marks a national rally against
mental illness. President Kennedy
has called for a bold new approach
to this problem based on new knowl-
edge and new psychiatric methods.
Participate in thc National Rally
Program in your community! Men-
tal Health Week is directed and co-
ordinated by the National Associa-
tion For Mental Hcalth, 10 Columbus
Circle, New York 19, N.Y.. in co-
operation with the National Institute
of Mental Health, U.S. Dept. of
Health. Education and Welfare.
Bethesda 14. Maryland.

Send to the former for “Your Action
Kit.”

 

RECREATION

SPACE
FOR THE

EDITORIAL

BASIC URGE TO BE ORNERY

BETTY FURST
MONG my middle-income friends
it’s been generally accepted that
“What’s wrong with today’s

youth is a lack of discipline.” Yet when
a real-estate man says, “There’s no
place in our whole downtown district
where a boy can hit a ball hard!” I
wonder if today’s youth aren’t under
more severe discipline that we were.

In my day it was safe to run, jump,
throw, climb, pick flowers, and swipe
apples without ; danger of being run
over by cars or picked up by policemen.
We could relaic. People picnicked free
in pastures and woods without getting
permission from any park board. If a
family wanted a dog, all they had to do
was to feed it.

And before my day, my father
climbed and crouched along the high
wall connecting his parents’ house with
their carriage house. The carriage-
house roof shielded him from view
when he shot balls of raw dough at gen-
tlemen’s silk hats or the rear ends of un-
suspecting dray horses. My pious
grandmother provided the pie dough.
She just assumed that a boy had to work
olf his cussedness.

It’s forbidden nowadays to follow a

 

Reprinted with permission from, the Sat-

urday Evening Post, August 13, 1960.
APRIL, 1963

fire engine, but my father’s friends
raced to fires, helped pass water buck-
ets, and felt terribly useful. And there
were chores, like brick weeding, which
unskilled children could do. Today, a
poor boy can hardly have a paper route
because it takes an adult with a car to
transport those huge Sunday editions.

In the section of Indianapolis where I
live, nobody, theoretically, is unprivil-
eged. Yet boys complain, “Unless
you’re on a school team, there’s no
chance to play ball!” Couples buzz
around in cars because their homes pro-
vide no place to congregate. When a
church out our way had an after-game
Open house, a thousand young persons
poured into the church social room;
they literally bulged out the windows.
If this is true in a residential homeown-
ing district, what about downtown
among the rooming houses?

YEARS AGO, as a student social work-
er, I asked an “incorrigible” girl,
“What was the happiest time of your
life?” Unhesitatingly she said, “When
we lived in a house instead of an apart-
ment!” Her family of five ate, slept,
cooked, and sat in two second-Floor
rooms. There was no yard, no accessi-

ble park or playground.
Was it do-gooding, or pampering of

A challenge to public recreation departments

delinquents, for a church in that neigh-
borhood to start Friday-night parties?
It seemed odd for a church to buy box-
ing gloves, carpentry tools and scrap
lumber, but the youth director ex-
plained, “When fellows start to get
rough, I suggest they either put on the
boxing gloves or come in the shop and
help me make something. And the
neighbors haven’t called the police for
three weeks now!”

People who boast how they used to
piece quilts, or bake cookies, or build
boats and birdhouses should ask them-
selves where rooming-house residents
could do these things. A big family
piled into two rooms has no space to
store quilt scraps or scrap lu1nber. Re-
lief families can’t let the children ex-
periment with eggs, sugar, and shorten-
ing. So our church has a craft shop
where little girls who’d love to pick
flowers in the park can, instead, 1nake
flowers out of crepe paper. And six
little boys have a cooking club once a
week, mixing biscuits or cooky dough
in old colfee cans and using the can
lids for baking.

We must admit, if we’re honest, that
in our day children didn’t need so much
outside help because in small towns, at
any rate, they had more room to _get
rid of their frustrations. #

163

playgrounds hum across the land

This summer, thousands of children will spill out onto
playgrounds varying widely in size, facilities, leadership,
and scape of program. Some will be unimaginative and run.-
of-the-mill, some will be constructive and stimulating to
young minds and bodies. Creativity, exploration, imagina-
tion, and discovery mark today’s progressive playground.

Throughout this issue of RECREATION are some descriptions
of 1963-style ideas.

NATURE FESTIVM
A SUCCESSFUL special event was inaugurated last fall by
the Richmond, Virginia Department of Recreation and
Parks when it presented a nature festival in Maymont Park.
D. C. Thompson, nature and wildlife specialist for the de-
partment, believed the event should be a cross-section of his
nature program on the playgrounds and his nature work
with organized nature study groups, such as astronomy,
mineralogy, and gardening clubs, school children and Boy
Scout groups. It was planned to include also manufactured
products showing the different stages of creation of a prod-
uct from a raw to finished state.

Maymont Park. a 94.14-acre estate, was selected because
it is an arboretum, contains a Japanese and Italian garden,
has nature trails, houses the Thalhimer-Virginia Wildlife
Exhibit and the Children’s Farm, and abounds in natural
heauty. It overlooks the historic James River.

The first weekend in October was selected for the event
and the hours of attendance were set for 10AM to 5PM on
Saturday, and from 1PM to 5PM on Sunday. Invitations to
participate were sent to individuals, cluhs, organizations,
and manufacturers in the Richmond area asking them to
provide an exhibit for the festival. Enthusiasm grew and in-
quiries from private individuals not originally invited were
received requesting permission to participate.

Playgrounds were asked to submit exhibits and also to
supply personnel to man the exhibits and answer questions
pertaining to them. Their displays included collections of
rocks, butterflies, reptiles. arts-and-crafts displays with na-
ture themes, birdhouses, bird nests, and bird-nest gardens.

A festive air was created in the park when two 15’-by-15'
tents, twelve eight-foot tables, and eight big picture screens
were erected on a hillside overlooking the animal exhibits.
Also. to give the festival a fresh and original air, Mr. Thomp-

164

 

son dubbed twelve-year-old, f reckle-faced Mayfield Arm-
strong from Rueger Playground as Richmond’s “Nature
Boy for 1962.” Mayfield, selected because he showed an in-
tense interest in all playground nature study activities, was
crowned with a straw hat and presented with a hamboo fish-
ing. pole.

Persons approaching the festival grounds were greeted
by a large “Welcome, Nature Festival” sign and walked
through two rows of balled trees, set up by the division of
street trees of the department, which were examples of the
type of trees planted on Richmond streets. Each tree was
labeled as to type and where it might he planted. One of
them was not set 011 top of the ground like the other five trees
but was planted in the earth with a cutaway model of the
planting explaining the method in which a tree is planted on
a city street.

Other displays included an azalea exhibit from the Bryan
Jark Azalea Garden; fifty plants native to Virginia lent by a
local nursery; and a Boy Scout exhihit showing how con-
servation can prevent erosion of roadsides and hillsides. A
seventeen-year-old boy displayed his private collection of
South American iguanas, lizards. turtles, and quail, manned
his exhibit, and answered qucstions pertaining to it.

Industrial exhibits showed the manufacture of fishing
floats, paper hoxes, cigarettes, and included a petroleum and
dairy association display. A local fishing-float manufacturer
provided fishing floats in various stages of manufacture from
raw cork, shaped cork, to finished decorated cork. The
story of tobacco was told hy a local cigarette manufacturer,
from seed to the finished cigarette. It included sacks of
fertilizers and nutrients that are added to the soil to help
grow tobacco, hundles of tobacco, shredded tobacco, tobacco
paper, cigarette filters, and so on.

A paper-box manufacturer’s exhibit includcd pieces of
tree trunk, stripped tree trunk, wood chips. wood chips chem-
ically treated and turned into a rough pulp, rough paper,
and the final product. The dairy association showed a scale
model of a dairy farm with figures of animals normally found
in a barnyard and a figure of the farmer himself.

An exhibit by the Virginia State Park Service included
nature items found in its parks, such as “Pocahontas Tears,”
and park literature. The Virginia Commission of Game and

RECREATION

In.

#1—

Inland Fisheries supplied literature on game and fish and
also a display of original drawings of wildflowers.

Two of the star attractions at the festival were “Smokey
Bear” and Indian dances by members of the N awakwa Lodge
Indian Dance Team, Order of the Arrow, of the Boy Scouts
of America. Smokey was an electrifying addition to the
festival and drew children to him like a magnet. He gave out
book markers on the prevention of forest fires. He was on
loan from the Virginia Forest Commission which also had
an inanimate display of fire prevention.

The Indian dancers performed on a hillside next to the
exhibit area. Viewers formed a circle around them about the
size of a football field and were six to ten persons deep. The
Indians probably lived, hunted, and roamed the very hills on
which the festival was held, and Mr. Thompson felt that
Indians were a group of people who knew nature at its best
and depended on it for their livelihood, thus respecting its
proper usage.

An estimated twelve thousand or more persons attended
the two-day event. Park policemen directing traffic at the
park recorded persons in automobiles from as far away as
Missouri, Arkansas, and Florida at the festival. The depart-
ment supplied the newspapers, radio and television stations
with advance publicity and credits them highly for the festi-
val’s high attendance figure. Releases were also mailed to
the school department, the public library, out-of-town news-
papers, the Richmond Chamber of Commerce and other or-
ganizations and individuals that would benefit from the
festival. The nature festival was such a success that the
Richmond Department of Recreation and Parks is planning
to make the event an annual affair.—XENOPHON MORRIS,

Department of Recreation and Parks, Richmond, Virginia.

IHE SMRWAGON

THE STARWACON is a simple traveling observatory and
planetarium, which has inspired a space program popu-
lar with young and old on the playgrounds of Milwaukee,
Wisconsin. It helps interpret the universe and space on the
lay level. It also helps the Milwaukee Public Museum in the
use of nearby scientific observatories, and in the fascinating
and important subjects of astronomy and astronautics. Most
of the funds required for the Starwagon’s construction came
from private funds.

Sketches of the Starwagon were submitted by the origina-
tor to the Milwaukee Astronomical Society for appraisal.
The society immediately became interested and provided
engineering help through its membership to work out tech-
nical details required for its construction. The unit was
built by the recreation division’s service and maintenance
department. The Astronomical Society also assisted in Oh-
taining a competent interpreter who conducts the lectures
on the playgrounds under the supervision of the recreation
division.

The unit is attached to a department truck or jeep and
can be transported to any section of the city. It is twenty-
one feet in length and has a fifteen-foot (diameter) collapsi-
ble dome set off by a colorful rainbow steel arch. Its equip-
ment includes a planetarium projector, space interpretation

APRIL, 1963

 

A three-and-a-half-inch refractor tclescope holds the inter-
est of a future astronaut while his friend in the background
becomes familiar with the wagon’s six-inch reflcctor scope.

JEN H'n,
'JH'JOIIIOIIIWWERH.N

v}?
5UP. Wham

-- -. gamut-va1

 

Tlie twenty-one-foot-long Starwagon is placed in
position for raising and opening its foldup dome.

globes, reflector. refractor, and satellite tracking telescopes,
charts and other visual aids.

The program is generally conducted in the evening and
has been exceptionally well received during the late hour
period 011 the summer playgrounds. Constellation locations
and the equipment may, however, be demonstrated during
daylight hours. The interpreter covers the subject of recog-
nition of constellations, daily and seasonal motion of the
stars, planetary motions, position of the moon, fixed stars,
and the concept of absolute magnitude. This is related to
mythology based on the constellations and to man’s present
attempts to conquer space. The interesting lecture program
runs from thirty to forty-five minutes, and viewing celestial
objects through the ’scopes usually goes on for an hour or
more—DONALD B. DYER, Assistant Superintendent of
Schools In Charge of Recreation and Adult Education. Mil-

wankee, Wisconsin.

TROUBLE SHOOTER

A “detached worker” has been handling special play-
ground problems in White Plains, New York, for the past
three years. Last sumincr. the worker. Frank Chiera, was

165

Down to earth after a
trip through space in
the summer playground
satellite program in
M ontclair, New Jersey.
The playground astro-
nauts’ space capsule
was called “Friendship
Eleven” in honor of
the town’s eleven play-
grounds. At the end of
ten weeks of summer
fun, re-entry into the
autumn atmosphere, for
the purpose of educa-
tion, was made with the

aid of a balloon and a
briefcase full of books.

 

 

first introduced to all playground leaders at a two-day leader-
ship training institute where the sixty summer playground
leaders were trained at recreation and parks department
headquarters. His purpose and function was described and
active cooperation from all playground leaders was invited.
At the same time, a police youth oflicer was introduced to the
playground institute and the three-way liaison between play-
ground leader, detached worker, and police officer was out-
lined. The worker visited all playgrounds as frequently as
possible but concentrated on five which required special at-
tention and were designated as patrol are as.

At least fifteen specific minor incidents, including vandal-
ism and delinquent behavior, occurred in which the detached
worker was able to draw the problem away from the play-
ground directors and relieve them of this headache. In most
cases, a good adjustment appeared possible and the children
were integrated into the regular program. Mr. Chiera re-
ceived outstanding cooperation from the White Plains Police
Department, particularly on the part of the detective divi-
sion. However, he recommends that uniform patrolmen in
patrol cars stop their cars at playgrounds when they have
the time and walk through the playgrounds occasionally.
Further, he recommends that children not be treated so
lightly when police are called to a playground situation in-
volving abuse or misbehavior.

Mr. Chiera reports an interesting division in the thinking
of youth. They are not generally as mischievous toward
private property as they are toward public property, par-
ticularly in a city of this size. In the fifteen-to-seventeen-
year age group, the boy’s attitude was that damage was un-
important since it was city property and therefore could
easily be paid for. The worker endeavored to impress upon
boys that all costs came out of their family’s pockets along
with those of other taxpayers. He felt that much greater em-
phasis should be placed on protection of public property in
schools and elsewhere.

Distinct value was found in the use of two major parks as
concentrated activity centers for teenagers. Personnel con-

166

centrated here are prepared to cope with the vitality and
tastes of teenagers from varied socio-economic backgrounds.
Mr. Chiera noted that most of the vandalism occurred in the
western part of the city involving a relatively limited portion
of geography. This area is low-middle-income homes and it
provides information as to how future leadership groups
may be concentrated to prevent this kind of trouble.

The summer of 1962 seemed to be remarkably light in the
number of cases of delinquent behavior and outright vandal-
ism. There were a few bad incidents but, compared to the
last two years, this was a good season. Observations by the
detached worker and by the department staff in general is
that the use of the detached worker is a most helpful device
and is definitely a productive technique in a city of this

size—JOSEPH E. CURTIS, Commissioner of Recreation and
Parks, White Plains, New York.

PEG POlE FOR PlAYGROUND (“NEWS

THE GAME of peg pole will challenge the interest of active

boys. It is inexpensive and doesn’t take up much room,
but be sure to allow plenty of space for spectators, because it
will prove popular.

Obtain a post from four to six inches
in diameter and about ten feet long. Bore
holes of the diameter of an ordinary
hroomstick three inches deep at varying
intervals the entire length of the post,
which must be set firmly in cement. Cut
three eight-inch pegs from a broomstick
and sand to fit easily yet firmly in the
holes. Be sure to remove all splinters
from the post, and, if possible, give it a
coat of good outdoor paint. Allow the
cement to set thoroughly before using the
pole. It is also a good idea to provide a
layer of sand or sawdust a few inches deep
around the base.

Contestants take turns climbing the pole
by removing the lowest peg and placing it in a higher hole
as they climb. They descend in the same manner. Competi-
tion may be stimulated by climbing against time, by requir-
ing a number of rotations of the pole while climhing, by
limiting participants to two pegs, and any of a dozen varia-
tions. The game brings into use muscles not extensively used

in other activitics.-——-ROGER M. WOODBURY in Mountain Life
&‘ Work.

 

PSN EVAlUMION

LAST SUMMER, the recreation department in Charlottes-
ville, Virginia, ordered eight sets of the Playground
Summer Notebook (see Page 185). Nan Crow, superin-
tendent of recreation, used these in the pre-service training
program and provided a set for every playground. In order
to check their usefulness and interest to leaders, each play
ground leader was asked at the end of the season to write a
short statement of his or her personal opinion, and to tell
which bulletin (if any) had been the most helpful. Each of
the twelve bulletins received at least one vote; Leadership
and Youth Fitness received the most, followed by Arts and

RECREATION

I Crafts, Drama and Storytelling, Family Nights and Spectal
Events. Without exception, the leaders were enthusiastic
about the ideas offered. One leader discussed the topics she
liked best and ended with, “Overall, a leader can find some-

thing helpful in each issue of the Notebook. Seek it out!”
. Editor's comment: We'd like to hear how your department used it
and 191.1: Ieaders' opinions of it. _

TREK (ART SIMPLIFIES OPERATION

A trek cart designed for camps would be equally useful
on playgrounds. Children would love to pull it.
. IN LINE with campers doing as much as possible for them-
selves, the Henry Kaufmann Campgrounds in Staten Is-
land, Pearl River, and Wyandanch, New York, designed and
constructed a trek cart primarily for the transportation of
I foodstuff and supplies from the centrally located commis-
sary to unit sites and cookout areas in the woodlands. They
found the uses to which the cart could be put virtually un-
limited. Equipment, cookout gear, work tools and so on are
hauled from one end of the camp to the other.
The carts are strongly constructed of two-by-fours, car-
I riage bolts, half-inch steel axle and heavy-duty steel wheels
T. fourteen inches by an inch and three-quarters with semi-
.‘ pneumatic tires. The entire body is bolted together, includ-
l ing the pulling handle. The latter is designed to permit a
team of two campers to pull or push. Materials for construc-
tion are readily available from any local hardware store and
I lumber supply company. Heavy-duty wheels may be ob-
tained from Fairbanks-Morse Company, 393 Lafayette Street,

 

 

 

 

 

I0c Each in orders of five dozen or more. Order any com-
bination to total 60 items. Postage is extra. I0°/,, additional
must be included to cover postage and handling. Ac-

I credited organizations desiring credit will be billed F.O.B.
EImhurst. III... Net 30 days. We pay postage on orders of
$30.00 or more.

Box 365
EImhurst. III.

WINNEBAGII CRAFTS

‘ APRIL, 1963

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

New York City. If desired, less sturdy and less costly wheels
may be used, but this is not recommended because of the
rough wear that the cart will be exposed to in woodlands (or
on playgrounds). The cart pictured here has grown out of
experimentation with several different types. Final design
for the trek carts, as used, were created by Jacob Lobenberg,
resident caretaker of the Flora Haas site in Staten Island,
and Monte Melamed, executive director of the campgrounds.
—From Camping Magazine, June 1962.

PIENIE IN THE (ITY

D

dent families can come on a summer evening to eat outdoors.

ETROIT’S neighborhood playgrounds in crowded areas of
the city have picnic tables and outdoor grills so resi-

FAST DELIVERY ON FUN AND ADVENTURE

The kids? They're active and learning. Each
craft a magic hour. they want to make them
all to use in campfire programs and to take
home as souvenirs. A theme for a week or a
memorable night of fun.

Delighted hundreds of children last summer as
they stretched the program dollar. Made of
sturdy paper and printed in color. everyone
likes their authentic designs and simplified
construction.

Six Excellent crafts for children six to twelve.

Sioux Gauntlets o Algonquin Birch-Bark Basket
Iroquois Turtle Rattle o Seneca Corn Husk Mask
Delaware Middle-of-the-day Mask
Chippewa Birch-Bark Rattle

FINE CRAFTS FOR 10: EACH

 

WINNEBAGO CRAFTS
Box 365 . Elmhurst. Illinois

Send me six sample crafts plus "New Ideas in Indian Lore."
Enclosed is $|.00 cash or check.

I
I
I
I
I
I Name: ............. .. .
I
I
I
I

Street:  ..  .. ..... ..
City: State
167

APPLICATION FOR HOTEL RESERVATIONS

   
 

45th National Recreation Congress
September 29 - October 4,1963*

Mail to:
NATIONAL RECREATION CONGRESS HOUSING BUREAU

St. Louis Convention Board,
911 Locust Street, Room 406, St. Louis, Missouri

 

 

 

 

 

 

W---w- ----—-—s “m I
I INSTRUCTIONS
. U O O O O 0 O O I
l 1. Please give all Information requested below. If you 3. Be sure to indicate your arrlval time In St. LOUIS. I
. wish to cancel the reservation or make any changes Reservations will be held only until 6 PM of the day
: later, notify the bureau and not the hotel. of arrival unless otherwise specified. Failure to
notify the hotel of any last-minute change in arrival
. . time ma result in cancellation of our reservation.
2. All rooms Wlll be assigned 011 a “first-come, Iirst- y y
served” basis. No block reservations will be made. 4. Your choice of hotels will be followed if rooms are
Single rooms are limited in number. Please arrange available, otherwise, assignment will be made to
to share room if possible. best possible advantage elsewhere.
: ST. lOUIS HOTELS AND RATES
' Distances from For For Two Persons s-Room Suites
. Hotel Headquarters Hotel One Person Double Bed Twin Beds Parlor d: 1 Bed
I CHASE-PARK PLAZA“ Cangress Headquarters 10.00-16.00 13.00-18.00 14.00-22.00 23.00-75.00
212 North Kingshighway
AMBASSADOR 1 Black 6.50- 9.00 8.50-10.50 9.00-12.50 17.50-25.00 I
103 North Kingshightmy !
BEL-AIR WEST MOTEL 2 Blacks 9.00-14.00 13.00-16.00 14.00-18.00 20.00-45.00 .
4630 Lindell
DIPLOMAT MOTEL 2 slacks 10.00-12.00 13.00-15.00 16.00-18.00 28.00-32.00
43.3 North Kingshighwoy
DEVILLE MOTEL 6 8Iacks 14.00-16.00 20.00 18.00-20.00 36.00-38.00
Lindell at Taylor
i CORONADO HOTEL T3 Blocks 8.95-14.00 TT.00-T 5.50 13.50-18.00 20.00-50.00
: 3701 Lindell
l CONGREss HOTEL 58Iacks 8.50-12.00 12.00-16.00 14.00-18.00 25.00-50.00
: 215 Union
I . . .
i Specral surte far four (parlar with two rollaway beds and a twin-bedded bedroom) avoilable at Chase-Park Plaza Hotel for $6.50 per person.
-m- “m- -“----‘-m

 

 

 

 

 

* I’m-Congress Meetings: September 28 and 29 O ARS Administrative Councii O NRA National Institute in Recreation Administration.
“‘ Rooms guaranteed at rate requested only at Chase-Perk Pisza Hotel.

THE NAME OF EACH HOTEL GUEST MUST BE LISTED. Reservations originai appiication. the Convention Reservation Bureau must send you a

cannot be made in any hotei uniess two names are given for each doubie- card asking that you submit two names. This means unnecessary deiay and
bedded room or twin-bedded room. If this information is not given on your iessens the possibiiity of assignment to the hotei of your choice.
HOTELS: (Piease Print)
lst Choice    2nd Chaice    3rd Choice  ..   . ..... ..
Accommadations Desired: Rate Desired:
.... .. Room(s) with one bed for one persan (single) 3  to .  
Room(s) with twin beds for two persons (twin) 3 ..... ..   . . to
. . . . . . . . .. Room(s) with one bed for two persons (double) 3    to 
..... .. Suite (1) parlor and one bedroom 3 .. .  ..  .. to . .   
.. . Special suite for four (Chase-Park Plaza) 3 ........................ .. to . ....................... .. .
Arrival Date   .. .  Time ..  . Departure Date .......................... .. Time ............................ ..
Names of All Room Occupants Street Address City & State

(Bracket those to share rooms)

Mm
MW...—
mm
“Wm—m.

Mm
Confirm reservation ta:

Name ............. .. .

Street Address    MAKE YOUR RESERVATIONS EARL"
City .............  ......................  ...... ..   Zone .......... .. State 

 

Public Relations

on the Playground

ALBERT HOWARD

ECREATION is closely related to
R education in many of its aspects.
The recreation leader, at times,
must function in the role of a teacher.
The playground leader must be familiar
with educational methods and with the
nature of human motivation. On the
playground the leader must understand
the child and his various stages of
growth and he must understand the in-
terests of young people and adults. The
leader must always be familiar with the
recreation program as an integral part
of the total picture of community living.
An activity is a means to an end; the
end being enjoyment, contentment,
creativity, and satisfaction. The leader
supplies the activities of a wholesome
and meaningful nature, the means
needed in attaining concrete recreation
objectives. What the leader says on the
playground is a reflection on the entire
recreation department and the commu-
nity in which he is working. A leader’s
first year can be a lasting, reciprocal ex-
perience. A leader can teach and learn
at the same time; children can help you
as you want them to. If the leader can
convey an air of amiability to the chil-
dren, a bilateral learning experience
will emanate from both sides. The
leader should be interested in every
child. Courtesy is contagious, and the
leader can start an epidemic, if he is
genuinely aware of the presence of
every individual.
The playground leader should be in-
structed during training sessions to:
0 Advocate the policy of the depart-
ment. Don’t underestimate it because
it is not what you want; it is easy to

MR. HOWARD, former superintendent of
recreation in Dobbs Ferry, New York,
is now supervisor of maintenance for
the Department of Recreation and
Parks in White Plains, New York. This
material is reprinted with permission

from the Dobbs Ferry Register.
APRIL, 1963

criticize when you don’t agree with
something. Take your suggestions to
the supervisor, not to the participants
or their parents. Remember that lead-
ership and direction coupled with man-
ifold experiences have gone into the
planning of the recreation program.
There are things that you may not un-
derstand the first time you attempt a
job but there are reasons behind every
policy. Try and find out why there are
policies, don’t refute them just from an
ephemeral and unilateral experience.
See your superior and ask questions.
When you criticize the program you are
indirectly criticizing yourself.

0 Try and understand personalities
and the social, cultural, and physical
needs of the individuals. Look in all
directions for possibilities that will em-
bellish a child’s fun-time. Don’t be like
a horse with blinders who can’t see to
either side. Try and open up new hori-
zons and try and understand the gamut
of human relationship and the many
facets of young children.

0 Realize that on the playground you
represent the community in which you
work. Leadership and direction is ac-
complished through good sound public
relations. There is no time for a mora-
torium when you are working with chil-
dren; there is no substitute for good
leadership. Be acceptive to the whims
of children and later motivate the
whims in the direction of creativity.
Be sincere, fuse relations, be a good-
will ambassador, and the parents will
respect you for it. If the children like
you, they will bend over backwards to
follow you. You will find that sincere
interest in the children will accomplish
more than you ever thought possible.
0 Always permeate friendship with a
solid and unwavering personality; these
are your best assets. Activities will fall
in line if you possess the other attri-

butes. 

 
   
   

 

 

  
 

RECREATION 
DIRECTORS in,

DISCOVER THE
ADVANTAGES OF

BRAIDING an
LACING for FUN

Your group can make hundreds of
fascinating items with Tandy's Dura-
Flex Lacing. Lanyards, Key Chains,
Bracelets, Caat Hangers, Belts, etc.

 

 

H

 

 

Get Tandy's big 32 page book . . . Braid-
ing and Lacing . . . with 160 eosy-to-follow
step by step instructions, only 50c pp.

All these items are
easily made with
Tandy’s

DU RA-FLEX

LACE

Reinforced for extra
strength, features, sturdy
fabric tape center covered with flame re-
sistant plastic—will not stretch or peol-23
calars, 100 yard spool, 1.25. Quantity dis-
count to scout groups.

FREE 112 PAGE CATALOG

Crammed full of kits and low-cost sup-
plies, plus discounts for groups.

H, - '7‘.

 
   
 

a?

TANDV LEA‘I'HER COMPANV
P. 0. Bax 791-W0 Fort Worth, Texas.

MPLAYGROUND

«MUSIC TEACHER
by CARABO-CONE

A vailable from

RECREATION
BOOK (ENTER
8 Wesl 81h Street
New York 1 1

al $5.

Endorsed by Univ. psychologists.
Develops child's reoding 8. rhythmic co-
ordination. Publlshed by Harper & Row.
Lectures, consultations avallable. For in-
troductory materlal plus Keyboard Read-
ing Chart send $1 to Cone, Box 356,
Scarsdale, N. Y.

   

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 169

 

lished in 1906 at a meeting held in Washington, D.C.

The genesis of the Association is to be found in the
suggestion, made by the then supervisor of physical edu-
cation of the Department of Education of the City of New
York to the first general director of playgrounds in New
York City, that a national organization, to be named the
National Playground Association, be formed to promote
playgrounds throughout the country. On the evcuing of
the day the suggestion was made, a letter was sent to

T as MTIOML RECREATION ASSOCIATION was estab-

Joseph Lee, a lay leader in Boston, asking him to come in
on the establishment of such an organization. Thus, at
the vcry genesis of the Association, the pattern of a united
professional and lay citizenship participation was set.

The suggestion for the Association came out of a series
of discussions with reference to the need for establishing
a training course for the developmcut of professional
recreation leaders. This idea later resulted in the pub-
lication by the Association of The Normal Course in Play
and its successor, Introduction to Community Recrea-
tion. It also led to the establishment of the Association’s
National Recreation School and the Association’s work
with all colleges and universities with major curriculums
in recreation leadership education, of which there are
now sixty-five.

This concern for the recruitment, education, placement,
and professional advancement of recreation leaders has
been, and still is, a very important part of the Associa-
tion’s work.

The basic reason for establishing the National Recrea-
tion Association in 1906 was well stated at its organiza-

tion meeting in these words:

There is in this country no national association having as a
specific purpose the development of an adequate playground
system for cities and towns, and no organization whose pur-
pose it is to assist in the establishment Of such playgrounds
or in the deveIOpment of public sentiment along these lines.

We have many associations, but either they arc confined to
discussion and work along lines different from these or they
take up so many activities as to be unable to focus attention
with suflicient strength upon a single one. It therefore seems
wise to establish such a national organization.

The purpose Of the Association, as stated in its 1906

constitution was:

To collect and distribute knowledge of, and promote interest
in, playgrounds throughout the country. It shall also seek to
further the establishment of playgrounds and athletic fields in
all communities, and directed play in connection with the
schools. It shall aim. as soon as finances make it possible,
to establish in Washington or New York, a National Play-
ground Musenm and Library which shall have modcls of every
form of playground construction and apparatus, a library of
all published books and articles relating to play, pictures of
games and playgrounds throughout the world, and an informa-
tion department which shall furnish cities or towns with lec-
tures, pictures, articles, or advice on any phase of the work.

The following comment, made in 1931 by a person who
attended the organization meeting of the Association, is
also worthy of note:

The conference (lividcd itself nearly equally on the question:
“Shall there be organisz a National Playground Associa-
tion?” Thc favorable vote (with a majority, I believe, of
about fivc) has been justified so completely and so frequently
that it seems impossible so many of our'recreation leaders of
that day could havc donbtcd for a minute the wisdom of es-
tablishing this new organization, limited in its activity to thc
single subject of “Recreation.”

'1‘ THE WASHINGTON MEETING, a constitution was
adopted providing for ollicers, an executive commit-
tee. a national council, and an annual meeting Ofmembers.
Several study committees were also appointed and the sec-
retary of the Association was instructed to kecp lists of
upper class and graduate kindergartners and collegc stu-
dents who might bc qualified tO assist during vacations
in the direction of playgrounds. The officers and mem-
bers of the council and the committees werc made up of
outstanding professional and lay leaders of the growing
recreation movement.

Dr. Luther Culick was elected president of thc Asso-
ciation and served for three years—--from 1906 through
1909. Dr. Culick was the supervisor of physical educa-
tion for the New York City schools at the time of his clec-
tion. In 1907, he became the executive of the Playground
Extension Committee of the Russell Sage Foundation.
Thus, the first presidcnt of the Association was, in fact,
a professional rather than a lay leader. The first secretary
of the Association was Dr. Henry S. Curtis, the first su-
pervisor of playgrounds for Washington, D.C.

Dr. Culick took up his position as president of the As-
sociation with enthusiasm, displaying great energy and
resourcefulness. His personal qualities, his ability as a
speaker, his vividness of description at private interviews,

 

170

RECREATION

#—

 

l is unfailing enthusiasm, all were such that the new move-
} lent made a very great appeal to the country. Dr. Gulick,
l-.imself, in public addresses carried the gospel of play
to a great many audiences.

A very real service was also rendered to the new move-
nent by its first secretary, Dr. Curtis, who showed much
ariginality in suggesting possible lines of activity and
gave generously of his time to the Association. He never

‘ vavered in his faith as to what the new movement might
)ecome.

The first annual Congress of the Association was held

‘ .11 Chicago in June 1907. This meeting was reported as

“raving had “a most unusual quality of vitality, freshness,

:nthusiasm.” Though the number of delegates attending

 

was small, the spirit was such that a very considerable
impetus was given to the new playground movement. A
magazine was also created in 1907, then called The Play-
ground and now called RECREATION, as a means of pass-
ing along a body of experience and information to the

field.

Sometime prior to the Chicago Play Congress, Presi-
dent Theodore Roosevelt, who had received the founding
group of the Association at the White House the previous
year, had agreed to serve as the Association’s honorary
president. The fact that President Roosevelt was willing
to lend his name and influence to the new Association
helped it greatly throughout the country.

In November 1907, Lee F. Hanmer, who had been an
assistant to Dr. Gulick in connection with physical edu-
cation in the New York City schools, was employed as
the Association’s first field secretary. Mr. Hanmer, in
his field work for the Association, traveled almost con-
tinuously, usually spending one day in a place. Usually
he would interview the mayor and the superintendent of
schools, speak at the luncheon of a business group, per-
haps meet in the afternoon with the women’s club, give a
general address in the evening, which late that night

APRIL, 1963

would be repeated. The Association owes much to the
charm and personality, the solid faithful work, the en-
ergy, and enthusiasm of Lee F. Hanmer.

Joseph Lee, a lay leader of Boston who had been elected
a vice-president of the Association in 1906, was first
elected as the Association’s president in 1910 and served
thereafter as president until his death in 1937. He was
followed by John Finley, a lay leader and editor of The
New York Times. Mr. Finley was succeeded by Howard
Braucher, a professional, in 1941 and Mr. Braucher was
followed by lay leaders serving not as presidents but as
chairmen of the Association’s Board of Directors.

Thus, the leadership of the Association has alternated
between lay and professional leaders. During the entire
history of the National Recreation Association, a very
close relationship between the Association and the lay and
professional recreation leaders of America has continued,
although the form and pattern of that relationship have
changed from time to time.

Perhaps it should be noted here that Mr. Braucher came
with the Association as its executive secretary in 1909
on the express condition that the Association become the
spearhead of a nationwide movement to bring broad rec-
reation opportunities to all the people of America. Inci-
dentally, it might be added that during the first fifty-six
years of the Association’s existence it has raised and ex-
pended exclusively for the advancement of the recreation
movement and the recreation profession, some forty-four
million dollars.

It is clear from this brief review of the founding of the
National Recreation Association that the time was ripe
at the beginning of the twentieth century for a national
recreation movement. In fact, more communities estab-
lished playgrounds during the first eighteen months of
the Association’s existence than had established play-
grounds during the previous eighteen years. Nor can one
read the early history of the Association without feeling
that a. very large number of individuals throughout the
country, both lay and professional recreation leaders,
were waiting and eager to respond to the national leader-
ship which the Association was to supply. There can be
no question but that the Association, then, as well as now,
and all through its long and successful existence of over
fifty-six years, has never been the work of only one or
two or three individuals, either professional or lay rec-
reation leaders, but rather has been the expression of
something deep in the nature of America herself. The
early leaders both professional and lay, were only giving
conscious expression to a movement for which many had
been longing and in which many were to participate. We
are all greatly indebted to those individuals who had an

171

NRA o ARS Background

172

 

active part in the. founding of and in shaping the policies
and services of the National Recreation Association

throughout the years.

an FIRST MENTION of even the possibility of forming
a national professional fellowship organization,
which finally resulted in the establishment of the present
American Recreation Society, to be found in the files of
the National Recreation Association is a report to H. S.
Braucher, the Association’s executive secretary, from
J. W. Faust, one of its field workers. The report, dated
March 24, 1936, referred to the fact that F. S. Mathewson,
then superintendent of recreation for Union County, New
Jersey, had told him that when he was at the Congress,
several outstanding recreation leaders had brought up
the question of establishing a national association of rec-
reation executives as an adjunct to raising professional

standards. He stated:

Mr. Mathewson expressed the rather fervent hope that the
Association could take the lead in getting the data on this
whole problem and being able to bring together a group of the
same leaders and, if necessary, assist them in organizing such
an association rather than waiting until some of the less well-
halaneed leaders went ahead and did the thing and told us

about it afterwards.

Apparently, Mr. Braucher shared his concern with the
Association’s Board of Directors, because in the Board
minutes for its May 27, 1936 meeting this item appears:

Unanimously voted, that the Secretary be authorized to or-
ganize within the Association a Department of Recreation:
Workers and that the Secretary be authorized to form a speeial
committee for the purpose of carrying through such an or-

ganizal ion.

In January, 1937, the executive secretary of the NRA
sent out a letter to all recreation executives with reference
to “the question of professional organization in the rec-
reation field.” In his letter, Mr. Braucher said: “Person-
ally, I believe that the time has now come when there
should be a more forntal organization of the recrcation
workers of the country. The Board of Directors of the
National Recreation Association share this view and so
voted some time ago. A number of executives have talked
about this problem.” Mr. Braucher stated that a “Ques-
tion to be faced is whether this organization should be
within the National Recreation Association or entirely
separate,” and pointed out that “in the National Educa-
tion Association the various organizations are a part of
the larger society but, of course, with separate officers
elected by the membership, each organization having its

separate constitution.”
Mr. Braucher also said that “on this question as to

whether the organization should be within the National
Recreation Association or entirely separate there should
be absolutely free expression of opinion. A postal card
is therefore enclosed on which it is suggested that you
record your present thought.” In concluding his letter,
Mr. Braucher said: “The whole question of organization
and form of organization will be taken up at each district
conference and time will be set aside at the meeting on
the first day of the next Recreation Congress for full con-
sideration of all issues involved. It is important that any
organization of this character be not sectional and that
tnen and women from every part of the country have an
equal share in working out any plans. Full and free dis-
cussion at both the district meetings and the Recreation
Congress ought to insure this. It ought to be understood
that all recreation executives would have an Opportunity
to share in the final decisions to be made.”

A copy of Mr. Braucher’s letter was also sent to all
National Recreation Association field workers with a
memorandum admonishing them not to attempt to influ-
ence executives in making their replies. It is interesting
to note that there was a sixty percent return of the postal
cards and that seventy-eight percent of those returning the
cards were in favor of having the proposed national or-
ganization of recreation workers within the National Rec-
reation Association. Dorothy Enderis, the recreation
exocutive at Milwaukee, Wisconsin, who handled the com—

pilation of the mail vote reported:

Very few ofthose voting" within the organization” gave reasons
or definite suggestions concerning what the relationship ought
to be. Those voting “withoot the organization” in almost every
case stipulated that there should be a elose tie-up with the
NRA. Possibilities of amhition for office and rule by cliques
seem to worry some who appreciate the absence of these in
the Congresses as conducted at present.

THE MINUTES of the organization Meeting of the Amer-

ican Recreation Society held May 17, 1937 at the
Atlantic City National Recreation Congress state that F. S.
Mathewson. on behalf of the New Jersey recreation exec-
utives, submitted a resolution providing for the forming
of “a ttational association to be known as The Profes-
sional Workers Division of the National Recreation As-
sociation” which was to “have separate officers and con-
stitution and bylaws, but working very closely with
the National Recreation Association” and with the As-
sociation’s secretary “as a member of the Executive
Committee of the Professional Workers Division.” This
resolution was unanimously passed and was referred to
a committee of fifteen under the chairmanship of Mr.
Mathewson to suhmit a complete report at the 1938 Con-
gress with the proposed constitution and bylaws.

 

RECREATION

At a meeting held on October 3, 1938 during the Pitts-
aurgh National Recreation Congress, and attended by
[25 professional recreation leaders, the constitution of
the Society of Recreation Workers of America was
adopted and ofiicers and geographical representatives
were elected. Active membership in the society was lim-
ited to “full-time professional employees in executive or
leadership capacity associated with the recreation move-
A ment.” Two hundred and thirty-six persons applied for
membership in the society during the Pittsburgh Recrea-
. tion Congress and Membership Card No. 1 was presented
to Mr. Braucher, NRA’s executive secretary.

It might be of interest to note here that on October 19,
1938 Mr. Braucher sent the following memorandum to the
workers of the National Recreation Association:

On October 6 the organization of the Society of Recreation
Workers of America was completed and V. K. Brown was
elected president and Arthur T. Noren, secretary. It is my
recollection that about two hundred persons have paid the
dues of $3.00 and were qualified to vote in the election of
officers.

As soon as the articles of the constitution on membership had
been adopted I drew my own check for $3.00 and submitted my
application for membership and I know that many of the
members of the nationalstaff are already accredited members
of the new professional organization.

1 think it is important that all the leaders in the National
Recreation Association should show support of the society by
taking out membership. Practically all, if not all, members
of the national staff present at Pittsburgh took out member-

ship.

The constitution stated that one of the aims and ob-
jectives of the society was “to affiliate for mutual benefit
with the National Recreation Association” and the As-
sociation’s executive secretary was made a non-voting
member of the Society’s Administrative Council and Ex-
ecutive Committee. The dues included a year’s subscrip-
tion to RECREATION magazine and the society’s office was
in the Association’s ofiice in New York City. The Asso-
ciation provided space for the society’s records; sent out
material for the society through its bulletin service and
magazine; provided meeting rooms at its headquarters;
time and rooms at National Recreation Congresses for the
annual meetings of the society and in answer to inquiries
stressed the opportunities of the society for constructive
help to the recreation profession and its individual

.

members.
At its meeting on January 11, 1939 the Board of Di-

rectors of the National Recreation Association

Unanimously voted that the Board of Directors note with ap-
proval the organization of the Society of Recreation Workers
of America and approved the sending of the magazine
RECREATION to the members of the Socicty at the reduced rate

of $1.50.

APRIL, 1963

REIATIONSHIPS between NRA and ARS continued close

and cordial until a misunderstanding arose between
them in 1946 with reference to the establishment of a
separate federal Bureau of Recreation in the federal Se-
curity Agency. This misunderstanding affected to some
degree the official relationships between the two organ-
izations and the personal rclationships between some of
their leaders but did not really affect the relationship
between the members of the two organizations or be-
tween the NRA and most of the recreation agencies and
leaders of the country. In 1949, Committees on Coopera-
tion were appointed by NRA and ARS and they developed
such joint projects as the promotion of an annual Park
and Recreation Week.

In October 1950 at the Cleveland National Recreation
Congress, the executive director of the Association had
a meeting with all the past-presidents of the society at
which future relationships between NRA and ARS were
thoroughly discussed. As a result of that meeting, a Joint
Membership Statement was drawn up and officially signed

by NRA and ARS. The statement appeared in the official

publications of both organizations in February 1951 and
reads as follows:

The National Recreation Association and the American Rec-
reation Society are glad to“ subscribe to this joint statement of
the primary purpose of both organizations and to join in
urging all professional recreation workers to participate in the
activities of the association and the society, as members of
both. In this way, effective cooperative action can he developed
for the advancement of the recreation movement and the rec-
reation profession.

The National Recreation Association is a national voluntary, ‘
civic organization through which professional and lay citizen-
ship participation can unite to provide the many nationwide
services in the recreation field which are essential to the sound
growth of recreation throughout the country.

The American Recreation Society is a national, voluntary,
professional fellowship organization concerned with the build-
ing of a strong professional group. Its program, directed to
the profession, is designed to improvc the quality of profes-
sional leadership, and thus the quality of recreation services
and opportunities.

To the professional recreation worker and to the individual
planning to enter the field, membership in the National Rec-
reation Association and the American Recreation Society is
not a case of “either/or” but of identification with each and
support of both.

Eight years later, in October 1958, NRA and ARS en-
tered into a formal agreement which provided for their
joint sponsorship of the 1959-1963 National Recreation
Congresses. In October 1960, at thc request of the Society,
the Congress agreement was amended to provide that a
society representative should always scrve as the chair-
man of the Congress program committee with an As-

Continued on Page I77

 

1 73-

 

PROGRAM

Year-Round Tennis

How-To information about a successful program

which has become famous

beyond the boundaries of Milwaukee

MEL WADE with J. Cory Bachmcn

HE SPORT 0F TENNIS ill the northern

T areas of our country no longer need
be confined to the few months during
summer. The five-year-old community
tennis program of the department of
recreation of the Nicolet High School
District in suburban Milwaukee has em-
phasized this in all aspects of its pro-
gram. Tennis instruction in this community of twenty-five
thousand is conducted on a year-round basis for an annual
total of over 120 adults and 300 children of grades live
through twelve.
Year-Round Facilities. Because Wisconsin winters do not
permit winter play on outdoor courts, the Nicolet program
has discovered that the high-school gym can provide the
needed facilities for year-round use, both for instruction and
free play. It can he divided by a folding door (used as a
hundred-foot bounding board for certain aspects of class-
room instruction) with one court set up in each half, using
volleyball standards and regulation tennis nets. Where the
addition of painted tennis lines conflicts with existing lines,
easily removable half-inch white elastic tape is fastened to
books permanently mounted at the bottom of the gym walls.
A black tape sewn to the,white tape extends from the edge
of the court to the wall.

When the gym is not used for other aspects of the recrea-
tion or day school program, these same gym courts are
available for recreation tennis on a ten-week, one-hour at a
time, rental basis. The long waiting lists for the courts

 

. g

 

MR. WADE is director of recreation and adult activities [or
the Nicolet High School District, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
MR. BACHMAN is tennis director for the district.

174

attest to thc unbelievable interest in this opportunity for
winter tennis. Balls are dyed yellow for greater visibility on

the gym floor. An automatic ball serving machine is avail-
ahle on a rental basis for users of these courts. The gym is

also used on rainy days during the summer for instructional
use, thus allowing program continuity.

Organization of Classes. Adult instruction classes for men
and women of all ability levels are offered in the evenings
during the entire school year and during the day in the sum-
mer. For these classcs, the basic ability groups are; begin-
ning, consisting of those who had no instruction and little
play; intermediate, those who have had some instruction or
a season or two of play; advanced, those who have had some
instruction or a season or two of play; and a second ad-
vanced group, those who have had considerable playing ex-

perience but who desire to improve certain aspects of their
game. Sections are limited to ten students for each instructor
with classcs meeting one hour a week for ten weeks.

Summer classes meet one hour, twice a week for eight
weeks. The general achievement levels form a natural pro-
gression for each individual, with certain definite goals
provided by a testing and incentive system. Individuals

progress from beginning through intermediate to advanced,
then are able to participate in the Tennis Club, which com-
petes in the Wisconsin Junior Tennis League.

Further play is on an individual hasis and includcs sum-
mer tournaments and the high school varsity team, which
has won the Wisconsin State Championship. Under ordi-
nary conditions with good attendance and practice hetween
lcssons, a student will advance to the next higher classifica-
tion in two summers of instruction. The student gains a

RECREATION

————-——————

sense of accomplishment as he reaches each level after cun-
siderahle, concerted effort.

Girls and boys are placed in the same class, thus permit-
ting much more Flexibility in scheduling. Grade divisions
of fifth through eighth, and ninth through twelfth, are also
used, although advanced students may come from either of
these designations. This practice has proven satisfactory,
as some skill division is still possible within the class.

Instructors. In the summer program, three instructors are
utilized in each class period, with a class limit of thirty-three.
Allowing for absences, this results in a general ratio of one
instructor for each ten students. Instructors include one
chief instructor of considerable eXperience and teaching
ability, one college-age assistant, and one high-school-age
helper. The instruction of these three is supplemented by
voluntary cadet instructors who can thus offer further
desirable individual help. Class groups are frequently ro-
tated between instructors in order to satisfy the psychologi-
cal demand for equality of instruction. A mimeographed
curriculum manual including learner’s progressions and a
variety of class drills has been a great help in providing con-
tinuity of instruction from year to year in the case of a
turnover in instructors. This manual was requested by the
Peace Corps for use in its tennis program in Pakistan.

The Class Period. Each class begins with roll call and a short

warmup. Roll is very carefully checked, as consistent at-
tendance is important to progress and often explains achieve-
ment failure to parents when they get in touch with them at
the conclusion of the program. A warmup usually consists
of lunges, footwork, light calisthenics, and running. Each
hour is divided into: roll call and calisthenics, fundamentals,
practice, and free play. Students are encouraged to make
use of courts during free play hours for additional practice.

Incentives. Because progress in tennis is difiicult without
considerable practice and effort, devices for motivating the
student are important. Attendance incentives include the
charging of a token fee for class lessons and the annual trip

to River Forest, Illinois, for the National Clay Court Cham-

pionships for, those having perfect attendance. Last year,

one hundred and twenty were eligible to go on the trip.
The establishment of tennis “clubs” which are used for

Adult winter tennis instruction
class uses gym facilities

with aid of automatic ball machine,
netline painted on gym door

for bounding board, and

elastic tape on floor for tennis lines.

APRIL. 1963

individual motivation in each of the fundamental skills was
conceived by Harry “Cap” Leighton of Des Plaines, Illinois.
As the student completes each requirement he hecomes a
listed member of that club. Players must complete consecu-
tive strokes or start over. This activity can continue through-
out the term of lessons. The following are possibilities:
"Tapping down,” 300 Club, 500 Club, 1000 Club; “Tap-
ping up,” 200, 400, and 600 Clubs; alternating five up and
five down,” 300, 500, and 700 Clubs; and 25, 50, and 75
Clubs of the forehand drive, forehand cross-court, forehand
lob, backhand drive, backhand cross-court, backhand lob,
beginners serve advanced right court, advanced left court,
volleys, overheads, and two player rallies.

Promotion to a higher level of instruction is another
means of motivation. At the conclusion of each year, the
Leighton Tennis Tests for beginners and intermediates, also
originated by Mr. Leighton, are administered and the pupil’s
progress evaluated on the basis of the tests, attendance, and
amount of practice. A letter is sent to parents informing
them of progress and promotion, and printed certificates are
awarded to each student promoted.

The motivating factor in preparing for competition is
provided by an annual sectional tournament from which
winners advance to state championships. The Nicolet sec-
tional has yearly attracted over sixty participants, with
Nicolet representatives winning at least two of the state

championships each year in the tournament sponsored by
the Milwaukee Journal.

Equipment and Instruction Aids. As students are required
to provide their own rackets, information regarding the
choice of the best racket for the individual is offered in the
first lesson. Tennis balls furnished by the recreation depart-
ment include those used previously in tournament or tennis
club play as well as new ones. All balls used in instruction
are dyed yellow in an automatic washing machine for ease
in identification. This practice has resulted in a ninety per-
cent decrease in the unaccountable loss of ballsiused for
instruction.

The following instruction aids have proved effective in
improving instruction: the most valuable piece of equipment
is the automatic ball-serving machine which can duplicate
any tennis shot consistently, thus permitting concentrated

 

175

DOUBLE dNAP

AP
5“ AND EYE H6034:

 

CONCRETE
bLOCK

practice on a specific aspect of the game. The ball machine
is also available during Open tennis hours on a rental basis
the year around. Hoola hoops are used with the advanced

students as targets for placement of shots as are four-foot
vinyl-plastic toy dummies which simulate the location of an
opponenL

' A device aiding in the practice of bending the knees for
low shots and getting up on high bounces is easily con-
structed in this manner. A two-by-two board, twelve feet
long, is suspended across the corner of the fence about eight
feet above the ground and fastened by means of eyelets and
snaps. A one-inch strip of rubber-tire inner tube is fastened
to the board, passed through cuts 011 each side of an old
tennis ball, then anchored to a concrete block resting on the
ground. The ball is thus left suspended in the middle of the
rubber strip and can be positioned at various heights ac-
cording to instructional requirements. ( See diagram left.)

Y ear-Round Tennis Can. Be A Part of Your Community. The
fine family sport of tennis Opens new Opportunities for year
around fun and fitness. An adequate instruction program
provides the basic techniques and impetus necessary for the
individual to maintain his enthusiasm and participation in
tennis throughout the major part of his life. Organized
progression of students, adequate student-instructors ratios,
effective use of teaching aids, and full use of available physi-
cal facilities can result in a successful year-round program
of tennis instruction in any community. if:

ARTS 6°35 CRAFTS CORNER

 

Egghead Ideas

THE ANCIENT ART of egg dyeing—it dates as far back as

5000 BC, and was brought to this country by Dutch
settlers as part of their Paas (Easter) festivities—has ac-

quired some modern overtones. Besides coloring eggs to
help Peter Rabbit, you can fashion anything from a perky
pig or a sassy spider to a charming “social butterfly” from
tinted Easter eggs.

Eggs may be hard-boiled or “blown,” though “blown”
eggs have several advantages: the lightness of the empty
shell allows greater variety in decoration, the decorated
shells may be saved and used next year—-—and the raw eggs
can provide a bonanza of omelets, cakes, and custards. To
“blow” an egg, pierce both ends of the egg with a sharp-
pointed skewer or manicure scissors; the holes should be
about the size of a small pea. Be sure to puncture the inner
membrane. Then hold the egg over a bowl and blow through
one hole until the contents come out the other. A “mass
production” method—suitable for club or church group
projects—is to sterilize the blower attachment on some-
body’s vacuum cleaner and hold this instrument to a hole in
the egg!

After “blowing” an egg, rinse the shell in cool water and
drain well. Since the eggshell is so much lighter than the
egg itself, spoon the dye bath over the shell. to insure an
even dye distribution—and be sure to let the shell drain
well and dry completely. One of this year’s Paas Easter Egg
pure food-color kits has a brand new four-color, twelve-page
booklet, Peas Egg Decoration and Party Ideas, which con-
tains color photographs and detailed decorations for dozens
of inexpensive, unusual, easy-to-make decorated eggs and
egg arrangements. The booklet'also gives practical sugges-

176

tions for invitations, games, and refreshments for Easter
parties. Some “egghead” ideas:

Egg Pig: Use a pink- or orange-
dyed hard-boiled or “blown”
egg, colored pipestem cleaners,
and black plastic tape or con-
struction paper.

F or nose and tail: Wind two
four-inch pipestem cleaner
pieces around a pencil for coil
effect. For nose, keep coil tight;
for tail, loosen coil. Fasten nose
and tail ends of egg with quick-drying household cement or
jewelcr's glue.

 

F or ears: To make each, bend two quarter-inch pipestem
cleaner pieces in half, then in half again, shaping into an
oval. Bend the 51113“ end slightly for cementing onto egg.

Garden Flowers: Use pastel-dyed eggshells. For flower
stem, generously cover end of short, thin dowel stick (or
two pipestem cleaners) with quick-drying household cement
or jeweler’s glue and gently glue it into hole at large end of
eggshell. Cover hole at small end by gluing on sequin or
tiny pieces of paper, plastic tape, or felt. Cut various shaped
“petal collars” from pastel construction paper, shelf paper,
or paper doilies; with manicure scissors, out small hole in
center of each “collar.” Push each up 011 dowel stick and
glue to bottom of eggshell. Wind dowel stick with hias strips
of green crepe-paper or ribbon. Glue crepe-paper or arti-
ficial leaves near base of “stem.” Anchor “stem” of com-

pleted egg flower firmly in center of large gumdrOp.

“Lemon” Tree: Wire coat hangers, bent to design, make

r Rscnat'nmv

the basic tree. Artificial leaves, placed as thickly as you
like, are wired to tree “branches.” Yellow eggshells (with
pipestem cleaner glued into hole at large end, and, if you
want, tiny sequins or beads glued to cover hole at small
end) are secured to tree by wrapping pipestem cleaners
around tree “branches” until egg “lemons” are snugly in
place. Stems of leaves and “lemons” plus the tree “trunk”
are wrapped with floral tape, crepe-paper, ribbon, or plastic
tape. The completed tree is anchored into a flower pot filled
with sand, modeling clay, or quick-drying plaster of Paris.

For more information about colorful Easter customs, as
well as cues on egg dyeing and decorating, write to the Spe-
cial Assignments Director, The Paas Company, Division
of Plough, Inc., Memphis, Tennessee.

Do-It-Yourself Bunny

Rubber hands, a pretty piece
of ribbon, two white terry
towels, and a quart bottle of
aqua-blue fabric softener are
the inexpensive and handy in-
gredients which make a cheery
little bunny. The towels should
be very soft and white and
about 17”-by-26”. Start with
one towel, fold it in thirds, and
wrap it around the base of the
fabric softener (NuSoft) bot-
tle, fastening it with a stout
rubber band. Lay the wrapped
bottle on the other towel about
two inches from the end. Draw these bottom corners to-
gether around the bottle and fasten with a rubber band to
make bunny’s tail.

Now, at other end of flat towel, draw center down until
corners take the form of ears. Twist rubber band around
them in a figure eight to keep them in shape. Smooth rest
of towel around the bottle. Tie ribbon around “waist” of
the bottle for bunny’s neck. Set bottle upright and balance
ears on bottle cap. Arrange towel folds to suggest face.
One of the nice things about this particular bunny is that
his ingredients are useful after the holiday.

 

m

Eggshell Craft

Materials. Glue, glitter, yarn, pipe cleaners, paint, straws.
material, and paper scraps.

Tulip Field: Small box, painted green; punch several pipe
cleaners through it. These are tulip stems and should be
fastened with tape on inside of box. On top of the box, wrap
another pipe cleaner around the first to form leavcs. Place
a painted half of an eggshell on the pipe cleaner to make
the flower.

Eggshell Mobile: Paint eggshell halves, decorate with glitter.
String on straws with yarn. Place a tassel where knots would
ordinarily be. It may be necessary to reinforce the straws
or use a stronger material in their place.——RICH GOOD, Cor-
vallis, Oregon.

Eggs-Port Advice
Hard cook, not hard boil, eggs for better eating and, for
better coloring, do not refrigerate before dyeing. Also, han-

dle undyed eggs as little as possihle. Skin oils make eggs
dye-resistant.

Crafty TipoH S

0 When using a paint spray and the can appears empty, you
can often get a great deal more out of it by running hot water
over the can and thus increasing the pressure on the inside.
DENNIS MULLENIX, Matoon, Illinois.

0 To cover large glass areas with an inexpensive water-base
paint in a translucent pastel color, make a solution of one
part lime, one part water, and roll it on the inside of the
glass panes. Before it is fully dry, roll on powder tempera
paint, following directions on the can for preparation. The
results are attractive and can be done in a repeat color pat-
tern, allowing light to enter the room. Finally, the color
may be removed by washing with soap and water.——MORRIS
OZER, Arts and Crafts Specialist, Philadelphia, Pennsyl-

vania.

0 Telephone cable wire comes in assorted colors and can
be used for many types of creative crafts such as Suji fig-
ures, coasters, small baskets, mobiles, and table decorations.
—CARITA BUNNELL, Assistant Recreation Director, Poca-
tello, Idaho.

 

NRA o ARS Historic Background

Continued from Page 173

 

sociation representative as vice-chairman and that a rep-
resentative of the Association should always serve as
chairman of the Congress Policy Committee with a So-
ciety representative as vice-chairman.

ln January, 1962 the Boards of the National Recreation
Association and the American Recreation Society held a
joint meeting in New York at the invitation of the Asso-
ciation. At that oint meeting, a committee made up of
four representatives of each organization was appointed
to explore areas of cooperation between the two organ-
izations.

At the second joint meeting of the Boards held in Phil-
adelphia in October 1962 it was unanimously voted “that
(1) a merger of some type be considered by the boards

of NBA and ABS, and (2) that, to save undue duplication

of effort and thinking, the same committee as now con-
stituted be continued and directed to work out a plan to

APRIL, 1963

implement a merger; said plan to be prepared with a view
to its submission to the respective boards upon their sep-
arate convocation one year hence.”

THIS BRINGS the story of NRA-ABS relationships up to
the present. This year, 1963, will mark the fifty-
seventh anniversary of the Association and the twenty-
fifth anniversary of the Society; thus there have been over
two decades of relationship experience. During that pe-
riod, there have been both agreements and disagreements,
cooperation in many areas, and many areas where there
has been no cooperation. There has been coordination of
services as well as duplication of services. There has been
clarity in certain areas as well as confusion in others.
In the opinion of many, there is no matter of greater
importance to the recreation movement and the recreation
profession at this time than the future relationship be-
tween NRA, ARS, state societies and associations, and all
agencies and individuals concerned with the national
recreation movement and the recreation profession. 1963
may be the year for decision. # "

177

(93"
LJ PROGRAM

Starting from

Scratch

A one-man department with no paid
leaders runs a summer playground

program with volunteers

JERRY KERR

To RUN a super-
vised summer
program at five lo-
cations without any
staff and a corps of
Parent-Teacher As-
sociation mothers
as volunteer lead-
ers posed quite a challenge. We also had
no equipment and very little money with
which to buy anything. This problem
was solved by simply making public ap-
peal for equipment, new or used. Pic-
ture appeals, depicting empty equip-
ment barrels with forlorn children rum-
maging fruitlessly, were most effective.

 

In Indianola, Iowa, we met the chal-
lenge, succumbed and defeated parts of
it, and eventually enriched 396 kids
and all 78 of our PTA mother-leaders
with the values and benefits of super-
vised playgrounds. So successful were
we in our endeavor that the city fathers
of a normally conservative administra-
tion without hesitation increased the
next year’s budget to allow for staffing
paid, full-time leaders.

This, however, does not mean we do
- not intend to continue to use our volun-
teer help. We will still use them as
“second leaders,” primarily to help with
craft work, story-hours, and program-
ing for the younger children. With
these volunteers already trained, ex-
perienced, and willing to help, many
hours of valuable and needed help is an-
ticipated.

 

MR. KERR is director of recreation in
lndianola, Iowa.

178

 

--—-- Jam' ’ ' ‘: '  ‘7‘» -»~.. ‘-'~* -  -* ’5‘"

M

Special events expanded existing free swimming program.

Playgrounds and leaders were not
the only things new to the community.
Recreation itself, the ensuing pro-
gram, and the director were new too.
Recreation started June 1 and super-
vised playgrounds were opened June 25.
Needless to say, under the circum-
stances, turmoil normally generated un-
der such a venture was increased con-
siderably by the fact that I was dealing
with people who were only names to me.
Only a sincere interest and a conscien-
tious effort on the part of the communi-
ty could produce such fine results un-
der these circumstances.

The initial and primary concern was
acquiring leaders. Elementary parent-
teacher groups responded, agreeing to
take the playground in their neigh-
borhood. Schedules for mothers to
cover the five-day-a-week program were
worked up by each group and within a
week we started scheduling training ses-
sions for the leaders. Problems arose
and it was necessary to schedule nine
meetings to cover four groups, but
eventually every volunteer attended.

The basic crutch was a manual of
about one hundred pages and we at-
tempted to cover as many incidents and
situations, rules and policies, general
suggestions and aids, as possible. The
manual had about fifty pages of games
and ideas divided according to age
groupings. Complete schedules by the
day and by the week were provided.
Special interest days were planned well
in advance. The key to use of the man-
ual was the instruction to each leader
that this manual was her “guiding light,

but not the Bible.” The fact that she

would best succeed by putting herself
into the program and reaching back
into the manual for reference or help
when needed was impressed upon each
leader. She was left with the thought
that her inspiration was the prime in-
gredient toward success.

We planned a five-week program
aimed at the child from kindergarten
through sixth grade. Our potential en-
rollment, obtained from school district
figures, was 850 to 1,000 children. An
existing free swimming instruction pro-
gram during morning hours was ex-
tremely popular with this age group, so
we decided on a half-day Operation
from 1:00 to 4:30, with occasional spe-
cial events during early evening hours.

We insisted that every child be regis-
tered (at no cost) and a parent permis-
sion card signed. When new children
appearcd, a form letter and registration
card were sent to the parents, telling
them of the necessity of registration for
evcryone’s protection. Final enrollment

showed 396 children.

THE MOST POPULAR activity, by far,

outside of general play, was craft
work. These projects were kept inex-
pensive and simple. Most of the items
cost five or ten cents and could usually
be completed in forty-five minutes to
an hour. Special orders were taken for
specific items of craft work and then
priced in accordance with the cost of
the item. We did not endeavor to make

Continued on Page 185

RECREATION

LLIA.

unsure

 

125 GENUINE AUTOGRAPHED LOUISVILLE SLUGOEn—POWERIZEO. Turned from choice. open-air-seasoned white ash with natural finish.
Authentic autographed models Of the twenty-two sluggers listed below comprise the No. I25 line. An assortment of not fewer than six models is

guaranteed to each carton of one dozen. Packed 4/33". 5/34". and 3/35" bats in each carton. Shipping weight, 25 pounds _____________________________ “Each 54,30
MODELS:
Henry Aoron Norm Cash Nelson Fox Mickey Mantle Frank RObInson
Ernie Banks Orlando Cepedo Jim Gentile Roger MarIs Jackie Roblnson
Yogl Berra Roberto Clemente AI Kaline Ed Mathews Pete Runnels
Ken Boyer Rocky Colawto Harmon Klllebrew Wally Moon Norm Siebern
Tommy Davis Brooks Robinson

"53 SPECIAL AUTOGRAPHED LOUISVILLE SLUGGER—POWERIZED. (Not illustrated). Quality and finish identical to NO. I25 above'

but turned to slightly smaller dimensions tor the particular requirements at High School. Prep School. Babe Ruth League. P-O-N-Y Baseball.
and other teen-age players. Llsted below are the autographed models in the I255 group. An assortment at not fewer than six models is guar-

anteed to each carton of one dozen. Packed 4/32". 5/33". and 3/34" bats in each carton. Shipping weight. 24 pounds   Each $4.80
MODELS:

Henry Aaron Ken Boyer Rocky Colovlto AI Kallne Roger Marls

Ernie Banks Norm Cash Tommy Davls Harmon Klllebrew Ed Mathews

Yogl Berra Roberto Clemente Nelson Fox MIckey Mantle Jackle Robinson

43 ASH FUNGO—GENUINE LOUISVILLE SLUGGER—POWERIZED. (Not illustrated). Quality and tinish identical to NO. I25 abatre. Each
carton of one dozen contains three (34") intleld and nine (37" and 33") outtield tungoes. 5hipping weight' 20 pounds .  Each $4.B0

 

"5 FLAME TEMPERED—GENUINE AUTOGRAPHED LOUISVILLE SLUGGER. Turned from choice open-aIr-seasoned whlte ash timber. Flame
Tempered finish. and burn branded. the same as the bats used by many prominent maior league hitters. An assortment Of not fewer than slx
models is guaranteed to each carton of one dozen. Single lengths (33". 34" or 35") of your choice. Shipping weight. 26 pounds..................... Each $4.B0

125$ FLAME TEMPERED—SPECIAL AUTOGRAPHED LOUISVILLE SLUGGER. (Not illustrated). uali and finish identical to I25 Flame

Tempered aboveI but turned to slightly smaller specifications for the particular requirements of High choo . Prep School. Babe Rth League.

P-O-N-Y Baseball. and other teen-age players. An assortment of not fewer than six models is guaranteed to each carton of one dozen. All _
bats of one length (32". 33" or 34") of your choice. Shipping weight. 24 pounds  Each $4.B0

— 1.; 
- ‘deghm

-— ‘- «IIOII csslr ; — .
.t-

 

- :5...

15. GRAND SLAM—Turned trom select northern white ash timber. natural white tinish. Patterned atter the original models of the famous
sluggers whose names they bear. 5ix authentic models guaranteed to each carton of one dozen. Lengths 4/33". S/34". and 3/35" bats in each
carton. Shipping weight. 26    .      Each $3.70

15.3 SPECIAL GRAND SLAM—(Not illustrated). Quality and tinish identical to NO. I50 above. but turned to slightly smaller dimensions

for the particular requirements at High School. Prep School. Babe Ruth League. P-O-N-Y Baseball. and other teen-age players. Six models
guaranteed to each carton of one dozen. Lengths 4/32". 5/33". and 3/34" bats in carton. Shipping weight. 24 pounds . . .. Each $3.70

IIIO‘IAL

-

 

“.3 SPECIAL POWER DRIVE. Turned from fine white ash. natural white tinish. Patterned atter the original models of the famous
sluggers whose names they bear' but turned to slightly smaller specifications tor the particular requirements Of HIgh School. Prep School.
Babe Ruth League. P-O-N-Y Baseball. and other teen-age players. Six models guaranteed to each carton of one dozen. Assorted lengths 32
to 34"; shipping weight. 24 pounds ........ .. ..    .. . . . .     .  Each $3.20

Bats for BABE RUTH LEAGUE Bats for JUNIOR e PONY e COLT BASEBALL
Any bat in the Louisville Slugger bat line may be used in BABE Any bat in the Louisville Slugger bat line may be used in COLT

RUTH LEAGUE play. However. the "specials" (125$. 150$. LEAGUE play. For PONY LEAGUE the following are approved:
1408. and 1308) are particularly suitable for players Of this age 1258. 150$. 1408. and 1308. Also. any Junior or Little League
group. numbers may be used in Pony League or JUNIOR PONY LEAGUE.

 

HILLERICH a. BRADSBY COMPANY. INC.. LOUISVILLE. KENTUCKY
Also Makers of Grand Slam Golf Clubs

Printed in U.S.A. Copyright I963

 

 

   

534: 9%":

IIIIOI IILLEBIEI

  

“w SAFE Hit ,-...:'shed in natural ash white and supplied in an assortment of famous sluggers' models in each carton of one dozen. As-
sorte-. lenqrns from 33" to 35": shipping weightI 26 pounds  .    ..  ..  .  . Eoch $2.70

U

"3 BIG LEAGUER. Black finish with white tape grip. An assortment of famous sluggers' models in each carton of one dozen. Lengths
range from 32" to 35"; shipping weightI 26 pounds.   . ..    .   . . .. .  Each $2.30

 

ll Illlllf

 

“as SPECIAL SAFE HIT. Turned from ash. with rich darl: maroon finish and natural white handle. Patterneod after original models of the
famous sluggers whose names they bear, but turned to slightly smaller specifications for the particular requnrements of High School. Prep

School. Bobe Ruth LeogueI P-O-N-Y Boseboll. and other teen-age players. Six models guaranteed to the carton of one dozen, assorted lengths
32" to 34"; shipping weight, 24 pounds  . . .  .     Each $2.30

i ' “II-v—-- ‘_ ..____’____ ___ _._ _  . — -1.-———‘- _
g. .-

9 LEADER. Natural finish. Assorted famous sluggers' models. Assorted lengths. from 32" to 35"; shipping weight. 26 pounds......re..............._......Each $1.80

Display assortrrwnt

BASEBALL - LITTLE LEAGUE - sonaALL
LOUISVILLE till. 500 BAT ASSORTMENT

with 18 Bats
is shipped in a hard hitting
FLOOR DISPLAY CARTON

Contains:

6 BASEBALL BATS—One each of models

125 Flame Tempered, 1255 Flame Tempered
150$, 140$, 1305 and 9.

4 SOFTBALL BATS—One each of
models 100W, 54, 52H and 50.

8 LITTLE LEAGUE BATS—Two each of models 'I25LL,
125J and J2. One each of models l25BB and JL.

 

   

All these bats are illustrated under their proper numbers elsewhere;
shipping weight, 35 pounds per unit......................-...-.............$50.00

 

1508 LOUISVILLE SLUGGER "ROCKET" SOFTBALL BAT—ASSORTED OFFICIAL MODELS. A splendid variety of models—answers full
team requirements. Turned from select ash and/or hickory; ebony finish. One dozen in carton. 6/33" and 6/34"; shipping weight.
23 pounds .........................................................................................................................................................................................  ......................  .........  ...............  ............ .. Each $3.40

   

125L LOUISVILLE SLUGGER "VENUS" OFFICIAL SOFTBALL BAT—POWERIZED. For girl hitters. A small-barreled bat with gradual

rape.- f0 3 mm" grip, Natural white finish northern white ash. One dozen in carton. 33" length: Shipping weight 20 PoundS----r----mum-«wm£065 $330
" "' "  s ' _ _ .. _ , \gv‘ww‘iaz' "6.615, :-
ltllll RIBHSBYBQ
I _ IAPQ‘HT‘EJ‘LQ

i

 

m LOUISVILLE SLUGGER "SWING KING" OFFICIAL SOFTBALL BAT. Assorted popular softball models of first quality ash analor mcltory.
Oil Tempered and finished in saddle brown. Packed one dozen to carton. 6/33” and 6/34"; shipping weight. 23 poUnds..................................Eoch $2.90

 

* e .- -' oars...“ *-
‘E‘  — 3—“ AN - , ‘mmtm; v— I
1"" LOUISVILLE SLUGGER "DART" OFFICIAL SOFTBALL BAT. Assorted popular softball models. Turned from high quality ash and/or
hickory. Natural white finish and Oil Tempered. One dozen in carton. 6/33" and 6/34"; shipping weight. 22 pounds ....................................... ..Eocll $2.90

 

55 It's a Louisville "TITANIC" OFFICIAL SOFTBALL BAT. Natural finish. Ash and/or hickory. Green zapon grip. One dozen assorted
models in carton. 33" and 34" lengths: shipping weight. 22  52:20

 

54 It's a Louisvllle "JET POWER" OFFICIAL SOFTBALL BAT. Assorted models turned from ash and/or hickory. Brown finish and black
zapon grip. One dozen in carton. 6/33" and 6/34": shipping weight. 23 pounds .............................................................._..................................._...................EoCII $2.20

75 RB RAINBOW ASSORTMENT

75” H a B RAINBOW ASSORTMENT OF "BED FLASH." "GBEEN. FLASH" AND "BLUE
FLASH" SOFTBALL BATS. An assortment of softball models finished in brlght red. green and blue
with gold branding. Solid white tape grip. Four bats of each flnlsh to each carton of one dozen.

5/3|" and 6/32" lengths; shipping Weight. 23 pounds ................... .. . ......................................................... "Es-16h 52-70

- 1'
A
‘ 1
A

 

 

54L it's a Lautsuiite "SWATTER" OFFICIAL GIRLS' MODEL. Natural white finish ash with blue zapon grip. One dozen in carton. 33"
length: shipping weight. 2| pounds... .................. ..... ............................... .......... ...................................................................................................................... .-Eoch $2.20

 e

52" "RANGER" OFFICIAL SOFTBALL BAT. Turned from ash and/or hickory and finished in ebony. One dozen assorted models to carton.
33" and 34" lengths: shipping weight. 23  $1.30

 

 

51H “TRU-HIT" OFFICIAL SOFTBALL BAT. Turned from ash and/or hickory; maroon finish and gray zapon grip. Assorted models. One
dozen to carton. 33" and 34" lengths: shipping weight. 23  $1.70

Znuxv :‘

5“ "WALLOPER" OFFICIAL SOFTBALL BAT. Brown finish. One dozen assorted models to carton. 33" and 34" lengths; shipping weight.
23 pounds   $1.35

 

RECREATION AND PLAYGROUND BATS

These newly developed models were specially designed to fill the need for oll-purpose bots in Recreation and Playground ploy.

“} K 7 _ o _ _ _ d. “(‘1 chum—‘5' ,1 I _..—_ _
_ — (I f _f__£ ._ .f. LA“. d h ‘ a ,.  a; aka-“ .. .-____\ CL y 
. . - . vii it- ' .-'ecreaf/M I
‘l" I g ., I . I z w" “9"” "'

R05 LOUISVILLE SLUGGER OFFICIAL "RECREATION" BAT. Natural ash finish. Blue foil branding. White tape grip. One dozen in
carton. All bats single length (28". 29". 30". 3|". or 32") of your choice. Shipping weight. 20 pounds . . . . . . ..................................... Each $2.90

.c—duerEid-J‘" ' m '

PLIO OFFICIAL PLAYGROUND am. An assortment finished in Red. Blue. and Green (4 of each color to the dozen) with gold foil branding.
White tape grip. One dozen in carton—assorted models only. 28" to 32". Shipping weight. 20 pounds  S'I.B0

 

 

1 K
t H T'HF— w— —'-‘—' - - I ‘ - . ‘ (I "._. ‘
a? . D g I .2 ’ H
I ' I} . K ‘- I J" ,. I c.
b_ ~____ ____ " > - - - V '— 1—-
.)  _- t

In CRACKERJACK BAT. Small boy's bat. Golden finish. burn branded. Three dozen in carton.’ 28" length only. Shipping weight. 45
pounds ........... .... .. .. . ..    ..  ........-....-Each $1.00

QxSMmm  Jaym

 

 

money on any craft project, just break

even. Healthful fun for every age group!

Special events, such as dress-up con- .
tests, inter-playground softball games,  
drama days, parade and float contests
were popular items, but the climax of
the season was a free swim (ideally fore-
cast for an extremely hot day) for all
registered children. Mother - leaders
also jumped in and we all had a ball.
Inter-playground water-walking races
and tug-of-wars were held with cham-
pions declared. This proved to be a

Children. young people. adults . . . everyone enjoys
Dimco Shuttleboerd tor excitement. relaxation and
wholesome exercise! Court diegrem can easily be laid.
indoors or outdoors. Famous Dimco equipment. in
low-price "Sunlite" or premium-quality "Free-Glide"
lines. comes in sturdy Regulation Sets or Junior Sets
[2/3 regulation size].

FREE . . . Court layout plans. game rules. catalog of
Dimco shuttleboerd sets. Write today to:

DIMCO-GRAY, 205 E. Sixth St, Dayton 2, Ohio

 

very fitting and climactic wrap-up to the

 program.
we all learned a little” we benefitth Special Sessions tor Future Rink Operators
the community considerably and we at the
worked hard to make it succeed. Those ICE SKATING INSTITUTE OF AMERICA
who had predicted it couldn’t be done ANNUAL CONFERENCE AND TRADE SHOW
just didn’t know those glorious, ambi— MAY I" '5' '6' I963 BISMARCK "07“-

('II'IICAGO.r ILLINOIS

tious, volunteer mother-leaders I met WHERE ICE RINK KNOW_HOW CHANGES HANDS
last summer. # Write 726 Ridge Road. Wilmette. Illinois for detalls

 

 

Publicity Pays Off C E D C O

The New Orleans Recreation Depart- 195 Minoan Blvd" Mineom, N_ Y.
ment opened its summer recreation pro- m
gram with a “June Is Recreation Month”
celebration. A full-page ad in a local
newspaper, paid for by the local Pepsi-
Cola Bottling Company, brought star-
tling results, according to G. Gernon
Brown, executive assistant director of
the department. The whole department
was swamped with new inquiries and
registrations for its program. The ad

 

TO V0 CALIZE

WlTH
NATIONAL'S DANDY

stressed the fact that the activities are mum: mumm m m m anuups «swam-ONE 50m; SLIDEs'm

 

free, that fitness is fun. It listed sched-
ules for art, ballet, baton twirling, ce-
ramics, charm school, crafts, children's

. 0' u U"
museum’ playhouse’ fermion?” gOIden ace *Aeeiict'g'“ 5* tune! Need a proiector? Let us know . . . we‘ll save
club, opera workshop, c1v1c orchestra, put a. you real dough! Write today to:

variety workshop, piano instruction, Bl” 3"“ "In “IE 42 weétngthltlr:t'SNngépNSY.

("ER mun mun mus Meetings that begin or end with sing-along sesslons
are successful meetings! Watch your gang warm up
fast with a lusty group sing! Send to: National‘s
fantastic free catalog of more than 850 all-time hit
songs. available in slide form tar as low as 50c a

    
     
  

  

it SEND ONLY 50¢
FOR COMPLETE
CATALOG

square and tap dancing, mobile theater,
tumbling, and numerous other activi-

ties. Photographs of some of the activi—   

ties and the offer of the department’s
hundred-page summer brochure com-
pleted the spread.

 

that's the theme of the

l963 PLAYGROUND
SUMMER NOTEBOOK

. 2.00 t NRA b
Knit 011e, Purl Two q; 52 so (5 0 mem 9”)
The Phoenix, Arizona, Parks and ‘ Available MaY I

Recreation Department recently oflered “‘6 Order Now From

a series of four lessons in knitting for NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
beginners led by Dixie Yost. There was 3 west 31h Street, New York II

no charge for instruction.

0

 

APRIL. 1963 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 185

LET’S HAVE

   
 

A ccHO‘V-TO” FOB ADIATEUB CIRCUS PLANNERS

GLENN (JACK) HASKIN

OMETHINC Mzw, something different, some- mer playground season.
S thing eye-catching and appealing to the pub- A circus involves many things; it includes
lie is always of interest to the people work- drama, pageantry, art, music, rhythm, and con)-
ingr in the field of recreation. One activity that edy. It is a means of self-expression for any age
fulfills all of these requirements and has been suc- group. The word circus itself is electrifying so
cessfully used by many departments is an all-city far as enthusiasm of youngsters is concerned, es-
circus which serves as a fitting climax to the sum- pecially those who will be participants. All that

 

Yo, you don’t have to import clowns from Georgia Tech . . . you’ll find enough right in your hometown.

 

186 RECREATION

 

V 1
L1 PROGRAM

._s._______.r___. _..__ __ I

\ot as «kyle-alt as it .u c-ms' High {m}.- '
amt stunts an aerial riggmgs

van. start with simple routines and

work up progressively to breath-taking arts.

 

Manama,“  . Q. was.” _..._....o~-.:..:«A “Juanawumnd, ' '

No need for expensive apparatus. Trick
bicycle riding can, be a show stopper
and fall of bigtop hoopla

and professional razzle-(lazzle.

liger, tiger, burning bright. . . this home.
grown variety can go through the

some paces as Clyde Beatty’ s

l ig cats and people would love ’em as pets.

 

APRIL. 1963 187

is needed to insure good spectator at-
tendance is to let the information be
circulated around the community that
a circus is in the making. It is doubt-
ful if there has ever been a more recep-
tive audience than the one that will be
attending.

What is it that makes a circus the
magic thing it seems to be? Is it a com-
posite of activities on apparatus too
complicated for the average recreation
worker to undertake? Far from it. It
is no different than any other new pro-
gram activity. The same thing applies
here that applies when starting with any
other new idea: learn to crawl before
trying to walk, start with a few basic
and comparatively simple things, then
add more advanced acts each season.
If a leader in charge of the activity is en-
ergetic, wide-awake, has a good imagin-
ation, and is inclined to be interested
in new ideas, he or she (because a wo-
man can do this as well as a man] will
be successful in producing and staging
a worthwhile show.

The first circus can include much of
the color and atmosphere of the big top
by utilizing acts that are takeoffs on
professional acts in the big circus. For

- Low Cost/Growing
Sport Programs for
Both Men and Women

PM

For club, class or team. Requires

minimum space and equipment.
Exciting and practical for few or
many participants. National and
International assocraotions.
Castello produces championship
equipment and specually desugned
equrpment for class use. All
modestly priced.

JUDO and KARATE T00!

Kodokan approved uniforms spe-
cially designed for the taller
American figure.

Write for Free Catalogs

CASTELLO

FENCING/JUDO 8. KARATE EQUIPMENT
30 E. 10th St., N. Y. 3. N. Y. since 1914

 

188

i~——e——————

- anqcn. \wu: c able
d7 'l’l. inch dam. tru-
cohhccknq Etude-5

“n15

pu\\' LIP

LLB-aided 3 mph
Pole. 09 9‘. \mwf'I'N-I‘e'ml.

Th1 {lo M
.5 Pass  an,

smudWJ‘ALCK

on mind: up :5

'D.E,F Clea hues

we \mh hooK'Ev.

1hr“ mums dup
09- %. than mater-at.

Tm Hf“ had?) , haul!

inches. up 05- 5/3 unch
Motel-BL

Rival? tram. chains

\3 each square plate that slug!-
nto base 0? metal pole

example, ten or twelve youngsters might
be dressed as tigers with their trainer——
complete with whip, chair, and gun——

putting them through the same tricks
that the famous Clyde Beatty uses with

his tigers. Many other acts can be in-
troduced without the expensive appara-
tus or “rigging,” as it is called in the
circus world. Couples or quartettc
adagio teams, boys hand-balancing
teams, girls acrobatic teams, trick bicy-
cle riding, the rola-rola, and a variety
of side-splitting clown antics are all
possihilitics.

Not more than three actual rigging-
type acts would be necessary to satisfy
the desire of thc audience to see some

 

type of aerial work. Even these can
be basic, elementary routines that can
be taught safely at a low height over
mats or sawdust (see diagram of sug-

gested rigging above). #-

MR. HASKIN is circus director, Florida
State University, Tallahassee. His work
and the university circuses are known
far and wide. He says, “I have found by
experience that most youngsters (sixth
through twelfth grades) will learn the
tricks and routines faster than college
students. The safety angle is always up-
permost in our minds, regardless of age.
All of our performers are schooled in
fundamental beginning routines before
they are allowed to advance to the more
spectacular type of acts.”

 

Needed: Creative Leaders

True lcarlcrship is the creative kind,
leadership that brings out the power of
people to do their 0W1] thinking and
make their own decisions. It is going to
take that kind of leadership to make the
most of this country’s greatest natural
resource—youth, declarcs Dr. Gaylord
P. thitlock, state leader of the family
and consumer sciences program of the
University of California Agricultural
Extension service. “As the average edu-
cational level of our pe0ple—especially
teenagers—increases, so does their de-
sire and their ability to make decisions.”

The extension-service program chief
defined four kinds of leadership, insti-
tutional, situational, dictatorial, and
creative. Institutional lcadership, he
said, is associated with the position,

which continues even though the leader

may change. “Franklin D. Roosevelt in
his first term of ollice could be charac-
terized as a situational leader—releas-
ing the energy of a static, paralyzed
community,” Dr. Whitlock said.

“Both institutional and situational
leaders can devclop into dictatorial
leaders,” Dr. Whitlock declared. This
can be hrought on by the paternalism
of an old family, the perpetual office
holder, a manager of a dominant busi-
ness or a political demagogue. “A crea-
tive leader derives his greatest satisfac-
tion from releasing power in others
rather than exercising power for his
own personal satisfaction. The creative
leader always has the welfare and best
interest of his group uppermost, and it
is important that he remain in the back-
ground. This is true leadership.”

RECREATION

FREE MEN ACCEPT
THE CHALLENGE OF FREE TIME

The National Purpose Pro ject—a demonstration of leisure-time creative thinking

ANNE |.. NEW
RECREATION has meant many things

to many men. Through the years,

the National Recreation Associa-
tion has pioneered in pushing back the
frontiers of recreation, helping people
find new and exciting meaning in their
free time. It was natural, therefore,
that in 1960 the National Recreation As-
sociation should undertake still another
demonstration of how free people may
use their leisure—the National Purpose
Project.

At a time, when more and more citi-
zens were seeking not just satisfying
but important ways to use their leisure,
the Association offered a nationwide
discussion of our National Purpose—an
opportunity for voluntary use of time
to consider a matter of deep public con-
cern. Could this be a successful and
worthwhile leisure time activity? More
than twenty-seven thousand men, wo-
men, and teenagers from nine national
agencies testify that it could—and was.
The entire project was made possible
by a special public-service grant from
Life Magazine.

Approximately 150 groups associated
with NRA Agiliates in thirty-one states
and the District of Columbia sent in re-
ports of their discussions. These groups
included more than twenty-one hundred
people who spent an average of three
hours each in deciding what they
thought America’s National Purpose
should be.

In addition to the groups from NRA
Affiliates, the eight other participating
organizations were: the American Fed-
eration of Labor and Congress of In-
dustrial Organizations; Boy Scouts of
America (Explorer program) ; Federal
Extension Service, United States De-
partment of Agriculture; General Fed-
eration of Women’s Clubs; Girl Scouts

 

MISS NEW is director of the National
Recreation Association’s Public Infor-
mation. and Education Service.

APRIL, 1963

of the U.S.A. (Senior program); Ki-
wanis International; National Council
for the Social Studies; National Educa-
tion Association, United States National
Student Association.

FOR THE MEMBERS of each of the par-

ticipating organizations, the Nation-
al Purpose Project was a leisure-time
activity. For many of them, it was a
revelation of how stimulating and ex-
citing such an activity could be. Some
leaders of the youth groups, especially,
reported they had scarcely believed
that youngsters would want to cope with
such serious thinking in their free time.
Yet the young people could and did—
and thoroughly enjoyed it. As one lead-
er put it, “When faced with need for
real thought the suggestions were strong
and good.”

The discussion groups sponsored by
NRA Affiliates differed widely as to age
and background. Thus, it might have
been expected that their opinions about
our National Purpose would vary great-
ly. It didn’t work out that way. There
was a wide measure of agreement be-
tween the Affiliates and the other parti-
cipating organizations. In short, the
National Purpose Project revealed that
most of these Americans—whether teen-
agers, clubwomen, businessmen, union
members, college students, teachers,
farmers, or randomly selected members
of recreation-sponsored groups—were
in basic agreement as to what our Na-
tional Purpose should be.

They rated maintenance of our na-
tional security as a top element in our
National Purpose—and close behind
this, the majority (including NRA Affil-
iates) listed “spreading the ideals of
American democracy abroad.” The
need for individual and national sacri-
fice in order to achieve our National
Purpose was stressed by all groups.
Next in order, for NRA groups, came

“tolerance of extreme political opin-
ions” (apart from active subversion);
then, “assurance that every citizen may
exercise his constitutional rights.”

SINCE the discussions were a demon-
stration of the use of free time by
free men to consider a question of na-
tional importance, it might have been
expected that there would be a strong
“Yes, very much” to the discussion
question: “Does the National Purpose
include attention to constructive use of
our increasing leisure?” In actual fact,
the answers reflected the groups’ con-
cern for the rights of the individual and
their desire to avoid any hint of regi-
mentation. Most groups seemed to feel
that if they agreed on a National Pur-
pose there was some compulsion to car-
ry out that purpose—and they were
quick to say that compulsion must play
no part in the use of free time. (All the
groups that discussed the National Pur-
pose were self-chosen—that is, they
volunteered to take part in the project.)

The report of the National Purpose
Project is now ready. Called A Guide
to Action, it contains much detail that
space does not permit here. Copies of
the report will go to the nation’s highest
officials—but copies are also available.
as long as the supply lasts, to readers of
RECREATION who request and enclose a
stamped, self-addressed #IO-Size en-
velope.

We know that many groups plan to
continue National Purpose discussions.
As some Affiliates put it: “Too little
thinking and discussion has been devot-
ed to this most important matter” and
“Brushing away the cobwebs has been
extremely worthwhile.” When we con-
sider what recreation can mean to
people in our modern world, let us re-
member this nationwide demonstra-
tion—hard, creative thinking about our

country’s future can be fun, too! it

18‘)

 

' ADMINISTRATION

M. D. MORRIS

RESIDENT KENNEDY’S billion-dol-
P lar recreation wilderness land

bill* would put on a national
level what several states have already so
wisely begun on their own. The two
actions should be complementary; and,
because they aim for the same goal,
should get the utmost in general coop-
eration. Unfortunately, many stones
remain in the road, and more shall he

rolled in before the end is accomplished.

This situation concerns everyone be-
cause to live we must have some free
breathing space for outdoor recreation
—-—from reading in a rocker or lawn
strolling, to skiing or cougar hunting.
The US. Bureau of the Census statistics
assure us that our domestic population
is exploding at the rate of 1.7 percent
per year. This rate means (nuclear
holocaust aside) that just thirty-nine
years from now when the millennium
arrives, our present population will

have doubled.

Before industry, highways, and hous-
ing developments make a sea of cement
for facilities for all these people, the
legislation in question hopes to set aside

* The bill (SIM) proposed a national wil-
derness system which would preserve seven
million acres as wilderness. The hill was
passed by the Senate during the First Session
of the 87th Congress but late in the Second
Session the House Committee on Interior and
lnsnlar Affairs reported the bill with numer-
ous amendments under a rule which would
not permit debate or further amendments on
the House floor. The speaker of the House
denied this request and subsequently the com-
mittee called two meetings to discuss this and
other conservation hills but could not obtain
a quorum. Therefore, the bill did not receive

further consideration. It has been reintroduced
in the 88th Congress. (Sd-HRZUS).

190

PROSPECTING
: PARKLAND

now a tidy portion of good land so that
trees, beaches, lakes, meadows, or other
open lands will not become legendary
things of the past. How to accomplish
this task without having to pay tribute
to profiteering real-estate speculators
or without litigation against special
interests is a problem. Keeping federal
and state site selections compatible is
another. Coordinating recreation with
projected water-supply demands for
personal and industrial needs is a third;
but foremost is the problem of correct
and accurate selection of recreation
areas. Not all lands are good for park
or wilderness arcas. How can the au-
thorities tell which is good and which
not, without arousing the scalpers?

For instance, consider a problem in
New York State, where in 1960 voters
nodded “Yes” to a $75,000,000 bond

issue solcly for acquisition of parkland
and in 1962 voted an additional 325,-
000,000 for this purpose. The state
was fortunate in having acquired, as a
gift from the U. S. Defensc Dcpartinent.
the abandoned Sampson Air Force
Base, 8 1.265-acre “gardcn spot” on
Some bclieved it ideal
for immediate conversion for public

Seneca Lake.

pleasure; others held that it had poor
park possibilities and should be traded
to private interests for a more suitable
tract elesewhere. How can recreation
experts acquire adequate, substantiated
data upon which to hase a valid deci-

sion?

A

is right for recreation is by proper in-
terpretation of good aerialphotographs.

MAJOR WAY to learn. quickly, posi-
tively, and economically, if land

S pace-age technology
. gets as back to nature

The U-2 incident alone points out that
today’s cameras, film, filters, and stabi-
lizing devices are so good that some mil-
itary reconnaissance requirements spec-
ify the detection of a two-foot-square
object from pictures made at one one-
hundreth of a second, nineteen miles
up! Parkland prospecting photos re-
quire only the general commercial, 15,-
000- to 30,000-foot altitudes and a rea-
sonable acuity. The trick is in the ex-
pert analysis of a skilled photo inter-
preter. By this technique, large par-
cels (up to hundreds of thousand acres)
can be studied rapidly and efficiently
for aesthctic values, engineering as-
pects, natural resources, location of
transport routes, drainage, and possi-
bilitics for public education in the natu-

ral sciences.

A typical project of this nature was
accomplished a short while ago in the

 

PrOper interpretation of good aerial
photographs reveals recreation values.

RECREATION

Pacific Northwest. For purposes here.
the area shall be called Car Lake. This
easily accessible watershed area, about
thirty miles southeast of the nearest
central point, was considered as a pro-
posed park area. It comprises some two
thousand acres with an additional twen-
ty-five hundred acres along the access
route. Another fifty-five hundred acres
of primitive wilderness contiguous to
the park site were also examined.

The problem was to determine wheth-
e1' this area was suitable for recreation
use or not and, if so, what were some
possibilities for the planners. The re-
port of Ceotechnics and Resources, lnc.,
whose Outdoor Recreation Resources
Department handled this study, gives a
general apppreciation of the geology,
topography, drainage, soils and vege-
tation of the park site. To aid in evalu-
ating the recreation potential, the report
includes a preliminary summary of re-
creation advantages versus drawbacks
and some development suggestions in-
dicated from airphoto interpretation.

VERTICAL AERIAL PHOTOGRAPHY of
the site was viewed in the ofiice by
a stereoscope not too different from
grandma’s little parlor gem that gave
us our first 3-D glimpse of Niagara
Falls. Limitations imposed on this sort
of study might possibly stem from
small-scale photography or lack of pub-
lished information about the geology,
physiography, and biology of the site.
However, considering the project, such
limitations are not likely to have a sig-
nificant effect on this investigation.

Topography. A vertical relief map
(Figure I), made from the airphoto,
shows about a two thousand-foot alti-
tude difference between high and low
points. This is extremely rugged moun-
tain terrain abruptly punctuated with
narrow divides and steep slopes. Looking
again at Figure I, about half the slopes
within the study area are very steep,
greater than a hundred percent, or onc
foot up for one foot ahead. Nearly a
quarter are steep (about forty to a hun-
drecl percent). In lesser quantities,
slopes are a moderate fifteen to forty
percent, and moderately flat (up to ten
percent grade); while only two in
every hundred acres are flat. ( These
ngures are used only to illustrate re-

APRIL, 1963

lie] and are not intended to be a basis
for computation or measurement.)

Drainage. Surface water evaporates
or soaks into the ground. Groundwater
moves in coarse-textured soil layers
(aquifers) of the main valleys and
through bedrock fractures. For this
park study, the drainage pattern devel-
oped in Figure 2 is medium textured.
The main stream of the accessible
watershed occupies a “V”-shaped valley.
Rudely formcd glacial cirques compli-
cate the upper slopes, thereby creating
waterfalls as snowfed brooks follow
fractures down the granite bedrock. Car
Lake itself drains to the south through
a chain of bead-like, small paternoster
lakes connected by a spectacular series
of waterfalls. The watershed proposed
for development drains northward
through a narrow steep-walled structure

which conceivably could be an ideal
damsite.

General Geology, Landforms, Soils.
Spectacular avalanche scars can be seen
extending down the steep valley walls,
which may account for a lack of vege-
tation at those locations. Bedrock here
is well exposed in clifi's on the base up-
per slopes and in landslide scars shown

in Figure 3.

Fluvial and colluvial landforms are
also present. Figure 3 shows about half
the area to be base rock. The lower val-
ley sides are mantled with talus, slope
wash, and landslide debris. Huge blocks
of fallen rock dot the lowlands. Several
fluvial fans occur where mountain
streams reach their local base level. The
wide-access valley outside the park area
has many glacial terraces, doubtlessly
composed of sand and gravel. The de-
posited soils appear coarse textured,
rocky, free draining and trafficable.
Available Construction Materials.
Rock, soil, and timber are abundant
and accessible. Riprap and stone blocks
can be gotten from the talus; sand and
gravel from the terraces; and general
soil fill from fluvial fans or from the
main access valley. Considering all the
foregoing facts and applying ground
rules, experience, and common sense;
two cases evolve, one for a park and one
against.

Disadvantages for recreation use of
Car Lake are:

Small summer carrying capacity of the

available land, mainly because the val-
ley is V-shaped rather than L-shaped
as is Yosemite Valley, with not enough
flat land.

Access roads would have to be built for
construction but then they would re-
main as the route to the park.

Rugged terrain leaves few possibilities
for easy hikes or drives, thus diminish-
ing suitability for family-group users.
Avalanches and landslides are a threat
as evidenced by the many swaths in the
vegetation. Snowfall is heavy as is rain.
Cold water from streams led mostly by
snow-melt combined with the short sun
period on the lake and slow convection

«A ifth 613:!

6 v.1ch

A AIDEL‘YE

AF MDEIA‘IBLY fLM
P PLbT

-L.['.L|l'.l‘ AA? -

SYRIA”

.
l'
Inna-1. "LI
'4'
.I'

DkAINAGE

Guaulv 0th 0ch
Deal all... was.
new». PM“.
35680 éulbzd
Bum IL Slit-CE

CLhCI£L 1£LLACEG
GLMIIHL haLCiubL NLQIMt‘.

' GC/L/CY

 

191

   
 
 
 
  

    

IE"
SNO-KO N E5 "3

The fastest selling
hat-weather item
available. More than
8c profit per 10c
salell Equipment
from $149.50.

POPCORN

- Popcorn is eniayed
by over 95% of the

 
     
   
   
    
 
   
   
     
     
 
     
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
     

  

  

American public. 8c
profit per _
. 10c sa le . t I " .
‘ Equipment 
f J’PA
r a m 
$199.00” fan“ i

   

D 't lay, Writ aday for fre:
cote on, rochures etc., on carting up
your refreshment operaticn. Every
thing you need tram one source for
Sno-Kanes, Popcorn. Hot Dogs, Cat-
tan Candy and many other Pugh-profit
itemsl l - --

Refreshment Supply Division

GOLD MEDAL Ptonucso.

1839-49 Freeman Avenue-Cincinnati 14, Ohio

LastYearsLongeri. pi"?- "i :

approved for
tournament

play !

Dayton steel tennis, badminton
and paddle tennis racquets ore
Ideal for any school or play-
ground program. Their “extra
whip" improves every yaungster’s
game—gives a speed and
accuracy that cannot be
matched by any other type
at rocquet.

What's more, Dayton rac-
quets are practically inde-
structible. Their steel strings
and tubular steel frames are
not affected by climatic ..

/
changes. No covers ar /’
presses are needed to
pratect_them. They won't
warp, splinter, rot or sag.

Ask your local dealer
about them—or write to-
day for complete infor-
motion.

. court lamts

nmoN ntcuun comm % mm; :1.
743 Albright St.. Arcanurn, Ohio l your: lIl’ ill.

asking.

STEEL RACQUETS

192

due to the depth make the lake water too
cold for swimming most of the year.

ON THE OTHERHAND, the case for the
park lies in some specific advan-
tages:

Climate appears to be well suited for
recreation use. Snowfall is heavy but
the winters are not cold. Both summers
and winters lack extreme temperatures.
Foundation conditions and materials
for building and road construction are
good. The soil is free draining and
trafhcable. All materials are plentiful
and accessible. Building low-cost ac-
cess roads is possible with this natural
subgrade. The terraced stream valleys
that form the access route require only
a small amount of grading.

Potential as-is is good for recreation
use. There is magnificent scenery, steep
s10pes with rewarding vistas, many geo-
logical features with opportunities for
horseback riding, hunting, fishing, and
all winter sports. Such a park might
seem best suited for nature lovers,
geologists, campers, and winter sports-
men. Possibilities for trails leading to
panoramic overlooks, grand watcrfalls,
and woodland lore.

However, where are the swimming,
boating, summer sports, and family or
group areas? If Gar Lakc is not good
in these respects, then we should go
back to the report for more facts. The
answer can easily be seen from looking
in turn at Figures 1, 2, and 3 and relat-
ing them to each other. The relief map,
the drainage patterns, thc geology, and
the sitc photo itself, when correlated,
all indicate a natural damsite well suited
This
would provide water supply and a shal-
low, warmer lake for summer-winter
recreation. It would also serve to shift

for construction of a reservoir.

thc center of activity to the flatter area
and change the entire concept of the
deve10pment.

For this purpose a forty-foot-high
dam would be adequate. A hundred-
foot dam could be built without ap-
preciahle increase in its length. Below
the dam there is a possible effective
head of thirty to forty feet so that some
power might he developed for local use.
Even with a forty-foot dam, there is a
possibility for future sale of power to
logging companies planning nearby de-
velopment. Materials for dam construc-

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

tion are available close to the site;
foundation and abutment conditions
appear to be excellent. Moreover, a
natural site for an emergency spillway
exists.

Development possibilities beyond those
already mentioned can be fitted to the
natural surroundings with a minimum
of disturbance to the wilderness charac-
ter. The possible plan evolved by com-
pletely by-passing the obvious land fea—
tures, could only he accomplished by
expert airphoto interpretation com-
bined with adequate ground control, a
truly space-age technology helping to
lead us back to natural breathing
room. #

 

MR. MORRIS is a development engineer
with Geotechnics and Resources, Inc., a
firm of earth scientists in White Plains,
New York. The hrrn is currently doing
a survey of Big Bend National Park for

the National Park Service.

 

$1 10,000 Fugue

The Lincoln and Therese Filene
Foundation of Boston pledged, as a
memorial gift, $110,000 for the pur-
chase of an organ to he placed in the
symphony hall of the National Cultural
Center’s projected building in Washing-
ton, D.C. Roger L. Stevens, chairman
of the center’s board of trustees, an-
nounced that the pledge from the Filene
Foundation in Boston will honor Mr.
and Mrs. Lincoln Filcne, parents of Mrs.
Jouett Shouse, a member of the execu-
tive committee of the NCC’s Board of
Trustees. Mrs. Shouse’s parents were
known for their widespread civic and
educational interests in Boston, as well
as nationally and internationally.

In speaking of the gift, Mrs. Shouse
said, “We had an organ in our home
which my mother played, in addition to
other instruments for her own pleasure.
Our house was the meeting place of
many famous musicians. My own in-
tercst in music probably stems from my
grandmother having been a founder of
the Boston Symphony and my mother
having founded the Boston Music
School Settlement. I am certain there
are many throughout the United States
who will want to give memorial gifts to
the Cultural Center so that others may
have the opportunity to enrich their
lives by listening to great music.”

RECREATION

r l

 

ADMINISTRATION

 

Is Your

Playground Surfacing

SAFE ?

GEORGE D. BUTLER

s A RESULT of several fatal acci-
A dents on the school playgrounds
in Los Angeles, several years
ago, all playground apparatus was with-
drawn from use. Subsequently limited
use was made of certain types of appa-
ratus and funds were appropriated for
equipment.

A variety of experimental installa-
tions were made and tests were con-
ducted with various types of surfacing
materials. According to Lawrence E.
Houston, administrator of physical ed-
ucation, safety, and youth services for
the Los Angeles City School District,
sixty per cent of the 427 elementary
schools in May, 1962 had a safety pad
installed under their playground appa-
ratus. According to Mr. Houston,
“There are two schools that have had
this pad in operation for ten years. Al-
though considerable improvement has
been made in the material since that
time, these two installations are still in
excellent condition and are proving to
be most satisfactory. Approximately
three years ago a certified test was made
of the material and very little change
was noted. Based upon this experience,
the manufacturer would be willing to
give a ten-year guarantee of the product.
I am sure you will agree that this is
quite a departure in that it is almost im-
possible to obtain an item of any nature
with more than a one-year guarantee of
its quality, pr0perties, and service.”

 

MR. BUTLER recently retired as director
of the National Recreation Association
Research Department after forty-three
years of service.

APRIL, 1963

In February 1963, Mr. Houston de-
clared, of a material now in use ( called
Safety Surf), “Approximately seventy
per cent of the 427 elementary schools
have this material installed under play-
ground apparatus. It is most satisfac-
tory under climbing ropes and horizon-
tal bars used in the outdoor areas at a
junior and senior high school. Also, it
is highly satisfactory for use in weight
training and body building programs.

“Maintenance costs are nil for the
product is so designed as to resist trec
mendous changes in temperature and
other influences exerted by the elements.
An experimental pad installed in 1952
is still in good condition and there has
not been a single item of expense.

“No product can eliminate certain
types of accidents. This material does.
however, offer good protection against
serious head injuries which is our great-
est concern. As one doctor stated. ‘lt
isn’t what you fall on but how you fall
that determines the extent and serious.
ness of an injury.’ ”

An engineering study and evaluation
of various materials and products which
have been used under playground appa-
ratus as protection from injuries due to
accidental falls has been conducted by
Engineering Consultants of Los An-
geles, California, which issued a report
dated November 16, 1960. The report
listed thirty-one criteria or require-
ments established for cushioning mate-
rial and appraised material such as
sand, sawdust, wood shavings, tanbark.
turf, and pelletized rubber. in the light
of these criteria.

Molded rubber mats of the interlock-

 

-‘ ‘H—wd.‘ u I ' . I

Molded rubber mats of the interlocking

type met all the general requirements.

 

A weightlifting installation has a pro-
tective cushioning parl of Safety Surf.
The maintenance costs have been nil.

 

Approximately seventy percent of the
Los Angeles schools have installerl such
safety pads under their play apparatus.

193

l
l
l
l

ASSISTANT EXECUTIVE
SECRETARY (FEMALE)

ARGE Midwest association al-

lied to the public recreation
field is seeking two women, age 30
to 45, for the above position. Will
supervise office, prepare activities
reports, attend conventions and
special meetings. perform member
relationship duties, do some speak-

ing and public relations work:
travel 15% to 20%. Background

desired in recreation, as teacher,
manager, and/or participant.
Could be in physical education,
public recreation programs, the
Y.W.C.A., etc. Administrative ex—
perience very helpful, but not re-
quired. Should have a college edu-
cation, and be personable and out-
going, good at meeting people, and
unmarried. Starting salary $8,400
to $10,000. This is truly an excel-
lent opportunity, and your interest
is invited, in confidence, if you
have the desired background and
personal qualifications. Please
send full details, including men-
tion of your recreational hobbies,
to Box 100, Recreation Magazine,
8 West 8th Street, New York 11,
New York.

r--- - ----- ------ "---—--------—- ---
-------------------------‘ ---‘

 

 MONROE
m.» "

TABLE ~ '
mucxs 

H0. [-3 TIME
mu-nmm
Inseam TOP.
sum Insimm

   
 
     
     
  
 
 

  

PEDESTAL TABLES

 
   
    

("A'Rs DIRECT-FROM-FACTORY SAVINGS

I J to Churches. Schools. Clubs. etc.

Famous MONROE folding banquet

4) tables. Automatic locking. Easily
PARTITIONS

   

_ seats 10 people. 94 models and
sizes. FREE—NEW 1963 CATALOG. Color pictures
on full line—folding tables. chairs. table and chair
Irucks. risers. portable partitions. Our 55th year.

THE MONROE 80.. 181 Church St.. Colfax. Iowa

mil-ENNIS BALLS-u“-

$2.25 Per Dozen F.O.B. 6doz. min. order
Reorders from many recreation centers
Satisfaction guaranteed

    
       
     
    

 

Send for full infOrmation

.

i

. 0
American (Company :
i

i

MERRICK 4. N. Y.
Since 1937

r

 

   

ing type were reported as meeting all
the general requirements outlined and
also fully complying with Standard
Specification for Protective Surface
Cushion Mats prepared by the business
division of the Los Angeles Board of
Education. The report concluded with
the statement: “We believe that this
product has proved to be entirely sat-
isfactory in all respects as a protective
cushioning material for extended serv-
. . to
minimize or prevent injury from fall.”

A letter dated November 9, 1962,

from the director of engineering con-

ice under playground apparatus .

sultants, indicated that the previous ap-
praisal of the cushioning mat material
needed to be revised. He stated, “A
review of accident experience on the
first large-scale installation of inter-
locking mats after the first full year of
usage indicated that the degree of
protection expected was not being
achieved.” Reporting on the develop-
tnent of a reliable test proccdure he add-
ed. “The test procedures, instrumenta-
tion details, test data, and an analysis of
the test results are being prepared for
puhlication in the near futurc.

“A new type molded-rubber product,
designed to provide adequate protection
against falls up to twelvc feet. is now
being tested and should be on the mar-
ket in thc very near future. This prod-
uct will provide a protcctive cushioning
structure at least two inches in thick-
ness at a moderate cost and shall have
a service life well in exccss of tcn yea rs.”

In view of the widespread interest on
the part of rccrcation authoritics in the
develoliment of satisfactory and moder-
ate cost surfacing material to he in-
stalled undcr playground apparatus,
these experiments should be of great
intcrest and the effectiveness of any

newly developed product will be await-
ed with interest. #

 

 

TRI SWING

the action apparatus

it SWONGS
It WHIRLS
It SEE-SAWS

the PLAYMATE lino
playground equipment

The DELMER F. HARRIS Co.

CONCORDIA. KANSAS

Write {or information Dept. R

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

London is both historic and lovely

Just imagine this!
A real-lilo cruise

around the world
for you in 1963

Now you can travel completely around the
world with a group of people who will share
your interests and fun-people you'll really
like. You'll share the excitement of traveling
on a fine cruise ship. reserved deluxe buses.
modcrn jet planes. You can enjoy meeting
with other youth workers in foreign lands.
see important people and places on five con-
tinents. Best of all. you can do all this at

a price far below usual for a tour this ex-
tensive.

You can sail either late-June or early Octo-
ber from America's West Coast and. as you
enjoy the sunny days at sea. look forward to
Honolulu. the Fiji's. Australia. Ceylon. Aden
and many other wonderful lands. When you
arrive in Europe. your own bus and courier
will be waiting to take you through the beau-
tiful countryside to many famous cities. In
December your final adventure will be a jet
fiight across the Atlantic to New York. Col-
lege credit may be earned during summer
tour: also summer route may vary slightly.

How can these tours offer all this at a far-
beiow-usuai cost? (Minimum tour cost just
51475.) We do it by traveling outside the busy
tourist season. when prices are lower. We
take advantage of lower rates to groups. We
work with expert travel planners. who know
how to save your money and still obtain
quality in transportation and accommoda-

tions.

Your place on the 1963 Round-the-Worid tour
is waiting. It can be the trip you've dreamed
of—fun. new friends. time to sightsee and
learn. to rest and to play.

Write Now For Free Tour Brochure

Mary 8.: Howard Galloway Dept. R I

Dept. R. Camping Magazine
1114 South Ave.. Plainfield. N. J.

Please send Round-the-World Tour
data. without obligation.

Name

Street

o o o o . o o o .

. . 4 n t o n o o o o o o .0

Oct. Sailing [:1 '

City .
June Sailing [1

RECREATION

 

NOTES FOR THE ADMINISTRATOR

 

Municipal Immunity

An article entitled “Municipal Immunity from Tort Claims
Abolished,” appearing in the July 1962 issue of The M unici-
pality,* reports on a decision of the Wisconsin Supreme
Court which may have far-reaching significance for park and
recreation agencies. In reversing a lower court decision.
the Supreme Court stated, “Upon the facts of this case, we
consider that the trial judge was correct in his conclusion
that, based upon the past decisions of this court, no cause
of action was asserted in the complaint. However, we are
now prepared to disavow those rulings of this court which
have created and preserved the doctrine of governmental
immunity from tort claims.” The decision therefore swept
away the last vestiges of government immunity from court
claims in the state.

The case involved a three-year-old child who was injured
while playing in a “totlot” playground for preschoolers op-
erated by the city of Milwaukee. Her father sued for medical
expenses and damages due to loss of the girl’s society and
companionship. The trial court sustained the city’s demur-
rer, holding that the city was entitled to invoke the defense
of municipal tort immunity.

In reviewing earlier Wisconsin tort immunity cases, the
Supreme Court judge labeled the old distinction between
government and proprietary functions as “highly artificial.”
In overriding the court’s previously expressed viewpoint,
he claimed that any proposed change in the doctrine of mu-
nicipal tort immunity should be directed toward the legis-
lature. He stated, “We are now of the opinion that it is
appropriate for this court to abolish this immunity not-
withstanding the legislature’s failure to adopt corrective
enactments. The doctrine of governmental immunity having
been engrafted upon the law of this state by judicial pro-
vision, we deem that it may be changed or abrogated by
judicial provision.”

In commenting further on the decision, the court stated
that it was not to be interested as imposing liability on a
government body in the exercise of its legislative or quasi-
legislative or quasi-judicial functions. It indicated that the
case related specifically to a city, but that the court con-
siders that abrogation of the immunity doctrine applies to
all public bodies within the state, including the state and
its political subdivisions—whether they be incorporated or
not. “By reason of the rule of respondent superior a public
body'shall be liable for damages for the torts of the officers,
agents and employees occurring in the course of the busi-
ness of such public body.”

The Municipality article points out some of the areas of
municipal activity which may give rise to damage claims
and includes among them parks, playgrounds, swimming
pools, and public beaches. A practical problem created for
municipalities by the Holytz decision relates to the question

*Published by the League of Wisconsin Municipalities, 30 East
Johnson Street, Madison 3, Wisconsin. -

APRIL, 1963

of liability insurance. The article concludes with the stats-
ment, “Because of the broad scope of the Holytz decision.
it behooves municipalities which have not extended lia-
bility coverage to the entire municipal plant to now proceed
to do so, either by broadening the coverage of insurance
policies or by increasing funds earmarked for self-insurance."

In view of the growing evidence in other states that mu-
nicipal immunity for tort liability is being challenged suc-
cessfully, the Wisconsin decision handed down on June 5.
1962 is likely to have widespread influence.

Air Space

The conflicting demands for use of open space in cities
has given rise to a variety of suggestions for securing land
for recreation. A member of the city council in Seattle.
Washington, has suggested that the air space over freeways
be utilized for parking of automobiles, constructing a limited
number of commercial huildings, and also parks. He pro-
poses that the rental from the buildings in the air space be
used to provide money to pay for the parks. A number of
problems are raised by the suggestion, among them the possi-
bility of developing plans in advance of freeway construc-
tion, the incorporation into freeway designs of footings for
park Floors and buildings. and the fact that air space rentals
would accrue to the state.

Self-Sustaining
The April 1962 issue of Park News, the monthly bulletin

issued by the Essex County, New Jersey, Park Commission,
indicated that the commission has reiterated its policy that
specialized recreation facilities, such as golf and artificial
ice rinks, be self-sustaining wherever possible. Due to in-
creased costs, the commission has approved increasing its
weekend and holiday greens fees for registered residents
from $1.25 to $1.50 and for non-registered or non-resident
players from $2.50 to $2.75. No change is made in the other

golf rates.

   

 
 

. . . Yet low priced easy to assemble Frames
only - buy lumber locally. Used by. parks, rn-
dustry and institutions coast-to-coest srnce 1950.

  
 
 

l #100 The Original

' --. r101 DeLuee
#206 g g \
InWCllll‘IQ Bench V‘T—E “ :15”

I
- #205 Lewn-Perk Bench D

Write for cetelog end prices ‘1}

r:
. .g. .

   
 

i #210 Teble Lees

. - . ( "
When writing to our advertlscrs please mentlon RECREATth. 1).)

A

.‘I. III-
«I'll-III-
‘IIIIII'

n‘l
‘0'; ‘II' AIII

III--

I
u
L
I
I
I
I
r

 

III-s

RECREATION

‘IIIC
III ‘II'

'or A. In ‘II'
1000 IIIL
‘IIIIIII"
‘II II'

C

IIIIIIIIIIIIII
‘II'

III.’ C O

DIGEST

Games That Teach FAIR PLAY

Win or lose—youngsters should learn

to do both with good grace

RHODA W. BACMEISTER

EING A coon SPORT is not some-
B thing that comes naturally. One
reason is that it demands two
contradictory things of us. \Ve must
play the game hard, trying our best to
win. But we must also keep within the
rules, take failure cheerfully and suc-
cess without bragging or taunting the
vanquished. The combination of atti-
tudes is not easy to acquire—even for
grownups, as certain customs in sports
show. If no one broke rules, there
would be no need of penalties for fouls.
By and large, however, we do demand
good sportsmanship of adults.
Children, though, are ill equipped to
meet such rules of the game, even when
they understand them. They are nat-
urally more self-centered than adults
and are only beginning to care about
other people’s feelings. They don‘t have
much ability to control or hide their
emotions. Until adolescence, their de-
sire to make a good impression can’t
compare with their desire to triumph.
To play hard and want to win is easy.
Children do that with no trouble at all.

 

This material was condensed with per-
mission from Parents’ Magazine, De.
camber 1962. MISS BACMEISTER is the
author of Your Child and Other People.

196

and our highly competitive society re-
inforces this attitude. But how can they
suddenly switch to accepting defeat
gracefully, to covering chagrin with a
smile? And how can they modestly hide
victorious elation?

Well, they can’t; not suddenly. Adults
must be patient, and not demand too
much too soon. Equally important, we
must also become expert in using de-
vices that ease children along toward
good sportsmanship.

During the preschool yca rs, the prob-
lem is minor. Young children rarely
Play
They keep house, use clay, play cow-
boys, or jump rope rather than play
games with a winner and loser. Most
four-year-olds recognize that taking
turns is fair—even if each tries to get
more than his share. Their emotions are
stronger than their convictions, but they
show their understanding by demand-
ing that other children play fair.

organized, competitive games.

Simple circle games can be intro-
duced at this time, for they go only a
step beyond unorganized play. Some-
one is It, and it’s pretty generally rec-
ognized that everyone should have a
turn at that. All but a few shy children
are eager to star and they will stand a
good deal of teasing and frustration by

the group for the privilege. This is good
practice in self-control, though it is to
be expected that some children will not
yet be able to play fair, and not too
much should be made of it. Children of
this age keep the rules, when they do,
largely to please adults.

Around five or six, races and simple
scoring games featuring a winner begin
to be popular. Now the child is face to
face with the calamity of losing, and
tears and temper often result. Bragging
is to be expected, but it can be played
down. It should certainly not be en-
couraged by giving prizes.

However. compctilion soon becomes
thc life of any game and evcntually boys
and girls will havc to face its hazards.
Fortunately, many of the games popu-
lar with seven-to-tcns involve choosing
sides. This has two advantages. The
turn and turn about of choosing up em-
phasizes the importancc of having sides
evenly matched and children learn that
this makes for a good game.

Along with active outdoor games, the
middle-aged child plays dominoes,
checkers, ring-toss, and various other
indoor games, usually as an individual
competitor, sometimes with a partner.
Of these indoor, or so-called quiet
games, the easiest to take in stride seem

RECREATION

 

to be those involving a large element of
luck.

Car'd games meet this requirement
beautifully because they involve not
only skill in play but also a very large
dependence on the fall of the cards.
You are not necessarily stupid or clum-
sy if you can’t win; you can blame it on
your cards.

The enjoyment of chance carries over
to many games with their spinners, dice,
or card drawing. Eight- and nine-year-
olds are great devotees of Lady Luck
and have all sorts of rituals and incanta-
tions for invoking her favor. They only
half believe in them but it is fun to pre-
tend and to hope.

Most upsetting are the games which
feature direct attack upon the oppo-
nent’s men. A child who can keep his
good temper while another’s score
forges ahead will often break down
when one of his men is captured or sent
back. It seems to him as if this has hap-
pened to him personally, not just to a
counter on the board.

Perhaps as a natural defense against
too much stress, children are likely to
change the rules of any game. Much
good may come of this if the changes
serve to make it a better game for the
particular players.

The natural sequence of play interest
does a good deal toward gradually over-
coming difficulties of learning to be a
good sport. Most children manage to
meet the requirements for each age

 

' -

APRIL, 1963

Children. are not born. good sports but have to learn to accept defeat.

without too many lapses unless they are
pushed too early into highly organized
or over-competitive games.

But even when demands on their self-
control are kept reasonable, there are
many children who find it hard to make
the grade. lndividual differences in
emotional stamina are great. We must
be very patient with the child whose
basic faith in himself is so weak that
an injury to it overwhelms him.

The four-year-old can briefly enjoy
games that have rules, but his natural
joy is in free play. The five-year-old
likes games better and cheats less. He
can stand some races and win-or-lose
competitions. provided he has a fair
chance. If a child breaks down regular-
ly in playing one type of game. it is well
to move back a step to a less demanding
one. Sometimes the difficulty is that a
youngster can stand tension only so
long; then try a shorter game. Or it
may help to introduce a nonsense game,
one of those where the It acts silly and
you musn’t laugh, for example. They
lead to hilarity and indifference to win-
ning or losing.

Cheating is one form of breakdown.
All children try it at times, and children,
themselves, do not regard cheating by
their opponents too seriously unless it
is blatant or chronic. Still, we must
make sure that cheating does not pay
and is outgrown. This requires alert-
ness and firmness but not the shaming
or severe blame than can further hurt
an already tottering self-confidence. #

When writing to our advertisers nlease mention RECREATION.

 

“my grandfather makes the
best playground equipment

in the whole world...because
he loves little people like me! he makes

slides and swings and see-saws and all
kinds of things. they’re real strong and
they’re very safe. if you’re going to buy
playground things you better talk to my
grandfather or my father first. they’re both
named mr. burke.”

Send me your playground planning and specification file.

J. E. BURKE COMPANY

P. O. Box 986 Dept. 55 P. O. Box 549 Dept. 55

 

New Brunswick. Fond du Lac.
New Jersey 0R Wisconsin
Sec.l-'
Name:
Street:__________._ _________. _ _
City: State:

197

A REPORTER’S NOTEBOOK

 

Signs of Spring

It's spring and time to refurbish
totem poles and window hoxes and to
plant new trees and hopes . . . and that’s
just what park and recreation depart-
ments are doing.
0 In Vancouver, British Columbia, ln-
dian carver Doug Cranmer has been
busy in the Stanley Park service yard
carving and renovating totem poles.
Five of the rebuilt and repainted poles
now stand in a totem glade near Brock-
ton Point and the Nine O’Clock Cun,
the city’s famous time piece. The gun
is loaded with a charge of gunpowder
each morning by Frank Rance, a park
board employe who lives in the house
at the entrance to the service yard. The
gun is set off electrically each night by
a National Harbors Board attendant on
duty in the signal station at the middle
of the Lions Gate Bridge. When he
pushes a button at the appointed hour
everyone within hearing distance of the
resultant BOOM sets his watch.
0 Breathes there a man with soul so
dead, who never to himself hath said, “I,
too, could have a window box if nothing
more”? He has a staunch supporter in
the Montreal Parks Department, which
is offering a course in windowbox gar-
dening again this year. The classes (in
both English and French) are held in
the Montreal Botanical Garden and
cover the theory and practice of win-
dowbox gardening. Conducted in both
the greenhouses and garden classroom,
the course, includes demonstrations on
sowing annuals indoors, and students
get practice in the preparation of soils,
sowing of seeds and planting of cut-
tings; also the transplanting and prep-
aration of flats. Students are permitted
to take home seed pans, prcpared cut-
tings and flats. An illustrated lecture
on the preparation of boxes and the
identification and cultural requirements
of different plants is also included. All
tools and materials are provided with
students required only to hring along
an apron and paper shopping bag.
0 Taking advantage of that verdant
urge inherent in us all, the Los Angeles
County Department of Parks and Rec-

198

      
     

m
71hr/IIIIIW/J
VIIJ’II/IIIIIIIJ
'27 7/21/75???

' I ////

 
     

R

reation has managed to acquire nearly
all the trees and greenery found on its
parks and playgrounds through its pro-
motion of annual tree-planting cere-
monies, according to Warren M. Dorn,
chairman of the County Board of Sn-
pervisors. The latest planting occurred
on local Arbor Day, March 7, honoring
the birthday of Luther Burhank. Tree

planting ceremonies were observed by

civic leaders, Boy and Girl Scout troops,

and school children at twenty-five Los
Angeles County parks and playgrounds.
Arbor Day, which originated in
Switzerland in the fifth century, was
first observed in this country in 1872
when the Nebraska Legislature adopted
a resolution setting aside April 10 for
annual statewide tree-planting festivi-
ties. Like most Of the Plains states, Ne.
braska was nearly trecless at this time.
The success of this annual program con-
verted Nebraska into a national leader
in practical forestry. California hegan
observing Arbor Day as a school festi-
val on March 7, 1886.
0 Indians and rancherias are included
in horticultural and nature-study work-
shop courses for children offered by the
Los Angeles State and Country Arbore-
tum in Arcadia, California. The classes
are held weekdays after school. The
courses include:
INDOOR GARDENS (Grades 1 and 2),
teaching prOpagation by seeds and cut-
tings, soil structure, and an understand-
ing of the water cycle. Planters and
terrariulns are made to take home.
EXPLORINC NATURE (Grades 4 and 5).
centered at the upper lagoon and the
gardens around it. Outdoor ohserva-

tion trips and indoor projects produce
an understanding Of the inter-relation-
ships of soil, water, plants, and animals.
lNDIANs AND RANCHERIAS (Grades 3
and 4) depicting the life of the Cahrie-
lino lndians and early California pio-
neers: how they spoke, worked. and
played. This is presented through story-
telling and audience participation with
historical artifacts.

Get a Horse!
The working horse may be rapidly

fading from the scene, but the pleasure
horse is really coming into its own in
America, according to Carroll E. How-
ell, professor of animal husbandry on
the Davis campus of the University of
California. “People are enoying horses
as much as they ever did, probably even
more,” says Professor Howell, one of
the West’s most noted horse authorities.
“Pleasure horse riding is rapidly be-
coming a top national pastime. In fact.
the recent Presidential Report on Out-
door Recreation ranked horseback rid-
ing as more popular than camping. hik-

iiw water skiing, and sailing.”

a,

Professor Howell strongly advocates
the association of children and horses.
“It’s a wonderful way of teaching chil-
dren how to take care of themselves.
They learn the principles of care and
feeding of the horse, the maintenance
of saddle and bridle, and from that they
learn how to care for their own shoes
and clothing, the importance Of being
regular in their hahits and responsihle

human beings.”

Historic Art Center
Montreal’s recently opened perma-

nent center for art exhibitions, the
Mount Royal Art Center in the historic
Smith house, was especially renovated
for its new function. The H. B. Smith
house is a unique relic of the country
homes on the outskirts of Montreal on
Mount Royal. it was constructed hy
Mr. Smith on his farm in 1858 with
stone walls three feet thick as a protec-
tion against the epidemics of the time.
The farm was expropriated by the city
of Montreal on June 13, 1872, at a cost
of $110,000 to form part of the new

RECREATION

 

Mount Royal Park. In all, sixteen prop-

erties were expropriated and the total
cost at the time was $789,422.07.

The Smith house was used as a resi-
dence for superintendents of the park
until twenty years ago when residences
were no longer provided and then the
house was used as a police and first-aid
station on the mountain. Since 1961,
other buildings have been opened to
serve the police and parks maintenance
crews. After the construction of the
new police quarters and the new main-
tenance and forestry building in 1962.
it was decided that the Smith house be
preserved as a permanent art center
with exhibition rooms. At the present
time, only the ground floor has been
renovated and it has three cxhibition
rooms. The renovations were made by
the buildings division of the public
works department.

PEOPLE IN THE NEWS
'  The Helen Keller

Crusade for the
Blind, sponsored
by the American
Foundation for
Overseas Blind, re-
cently awarded the
Louis Braille Me-
dallion to Jack Woody, superintendent
of recreation in Miami Beach, Florida.
The presentation noted that this is the
only medallion so created in connec-
tion with the Louis Braille Commemo-
ration and honors Mr. Woody in recog-
nition of the work he has done for the
blind. ln accepting, Mr. Woody de-
clared that originally he was merely
asked for a meeting place for the blind
in his community. He observed the

  

many needs that could be met, using the
same meeting day and hours, and then
undertook to provide what is now a
wide range of program services to the

blind.

Handcrafts (ceramics. mosaic tile

APRIL. 1963

work, shell and tropic craft), music ap-
preciation, choral singing, dancing,
current events discussions, book re-
views—all supervised by traincd rec-
reation directors and skilled specialists
—are but a few of the activities now
regularly offered each wcek for the
blind in Miami Beach. Monthly socials.
holiday parties. and celebrations, pic-
nics and boat rides—with increased re-
quests for additional such programing
—-—have seen these handicapped mem-
bers of the community making in-
creased use of the Miami Beach Recrea-
tion Department facilities, almost com-
parable to that of sighted participants.
Significant has been their theater par-
ties, group attendance at each “Little
Stage” (community theater) produc-
tion, with an entire performance booked
solid for the Miami Beach Guild for the
blind.

Mr. Woody pledged his department’s
continuing cooperation on behalf of the
sightless and handicapped. (Mr. Woody
and Miami Beach play host to the 46th
National Recreation Congress in 1964.)

\Villiam H. Shu-

mard has been
named the director
of recreation for
the city of Seattle,
Washington, effec-
tive April 15. Mr.
Shuniard has been
executive director of program for the
Oakland, California, Recreation De-
partment for the past five years. Pre-
viously he was Pacific Northwest dis-
trict representative for the National Rec-
reation Association for twelve yea rs. The
Seattle position has been vacant since

 

Ben Evans retired about two years ago.
During the interim, the National Rec-
reation Association conducted a survey
and a city charter revision was approved
by the people of Seattle, making it pos-
sible to recruit for this position nation-
wide.

Helen H. lverson, whose service with
the Oakland, California, Recreation De-
partment is the longest on record—-
forty-one years and four months—re-
tired in March. Mrs. lverson, super-
visor of Oakland’s municipal camping
program and production manager of

Continued on Page 204

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

HANNA MFG. CO.

 

Only The Best
z: E 0 U I P M E N T
." Is Good Enough

 

AMERICAN
“APPROVED”

PARK and PICNIC.
P LAYG R0 U N D

AND SWIMMING
POOL EQUIPMENT

The wise choice of experienced
buyers for more than half a century.
Write for comprehensive literature.

AMERICAN

PLAYGROUND DEVICE co.
ANDERSON, INDIANA, u. S.A.

WORLD'S LARGEST MANUFACTURERS OF FINE
PARK. PICNIC. PLAYGROUND. SWIMMING
POOL AND DRESSING ROOM EQUIPMENT

 

  
 

Hanna’s exclusive
PRO-T  REATED
barrels a if; practically
eliminate chipping
and ch ec king,
while fac tory ap-
plied FlBE RGLASS
SLEEVES reduce
h a n d l e breakage.
cost hitter!

HANNA

BAIT.le

BATS

 

Athens, Ga.

199

MARKET NEWS

 

For further information, please write directly to source given.

0 Litteral solution. A new, heavy-duty litter vacuum clean-
er, designed for picking up all kinds of debris, the Clarke
Litter Vac, picks up a thirty-inch swath of litter, including
quart milk cartons, all kinds of paper, leaves, grass clippings.
wood shavings, light metal chips, sand, gravel, et cetera. It
is expected to be widely used in playgrounds, stadiums, pic-
nic areas, shopping centers, parking lots, warehouses, termi-
nals, and other heavy traffic areas where litter is a problem.
The Litter Vac has a three-horsepower Briggs 8: Stratton
gasoline engine which powers the unit’s twelve-inch diame—
ter, nonsparking, aluminum-alloy impeller for unusually
vigorous suction through the 30”-by-4” intake.

Its frame is formed and welded steel equipped with
chrome-plated steel-tubing handles and plastic handle grips.
It has two fourteen-inch steel wheels with low-pressure pneu-
matic tires and a three-inch, ball-bearing, swivel-type front
caster for easy maneuverability. The cast-aluminum-alloy
housing is nonsparking and absorbs impact of hard ohjects.
Filter bag is fleece-lined, high-strength cotton filter cloth
with fifty-inch heavy-duty zipper and 111/2 cubic foot capac-
ity. Further information on the Litter Vac may be obtained
by writing to Clarke Floor Machine Company, Division of
Studebaker Corporation. 30 East Clay Avenue, Muskegon,
Michigan.

0 Thermal balance. Ncarly seven hundred heat-removal
troffers will play an important part in the unusual heating
and cooling system being installed in a new high school in
Kimberly, Wisconsin. This system could be used very effec-
tively in recreation centers and multi-use buildings. These
recessed fluorescent fixtures will be utilized to provide a
high classroom illumination level of over IOO-foot candles
and, in addition, they will remove excess room heat so it can
eventually be rensed. A majority of the fixtures will be the

 

four-lamp type, using four-foot fluorescent tubes in a two-
foot wide canopy. The remainder incorporate two four-foot
units in a one-foot housing. The heat removal features of
these units will keep approximately sixty percent of the total
fixture heat from entering each classroom. This heat, plus
that generated by the occupants, will average approximately
eighty degrees, ten degrees greater than the temperature in
the room itself. Having heen drawn into a plenum chamber
above the room, this warmer air is returned to the heating-
cooling source for reuse.

The removal of heat will mean a definite reduction in
the amount of cooling required and according to the air-
conditioning, heating, and ventilating consultant for the
school, will cut the duct tonnage by ten percent and will in-
crease the coefficient of performance of the heat pump. Fur-

200

 

ther. a total reduction of twenty-five percent in fan horse-
power will be achieved. Besides the ventilating properties
of the troffers, the removal of heat from the fixture will also
increase lighting efliciency by creating a cooler environment
for the fluorescent tubes. The Kimberly project will have
no boiler or furnace as such; instead, it will use a heat pump,
a device which converts the heat loss from the air-condition-
ing equipment, exhaust air, and well water into usable en-
ergy in the form of hot water. For further information write
to Sam K. Wilson, Benjamin Division, Thomas Industries,
20":T Broadway, Louisville 2, Kentucky.

0 Cushioned comfort. New
degrees of comfort, safety,
and shock protection are pro-
vided by a recently developed
gymnastic shoe now available
to teams of all levels. The new
3-4 Shoe has a molded sole of
floor-gripping white rubber;
in addition. a protective layer of foam padding is sand-
wiched beneath the inner sole. A snow-white cotton-canvas
top provides both lightweight and dressup appearance. The
new shoe is available in hard-to-find “E” widths. For com-
plete information and special tcam prices, write to Gymnastic
Supply Company, lnc., 250 West Sixth Street, San Pedro.
California.

0 Sound on the move. A new thirty-watt, mobile public-
address amplificr that weighs only cleven pounds and fea-
tures an all-transistor design is ideal for use in parks, play-
grounds, picnic areas, on sound trucks, hoats, mobile units,
and automobiles. It will operate from any twelve-volt direct
current source including a car cigarettc-lighter rcceptaclc.
The unit is ruggedly designed and will maintain its top per-
formance despitc rough and long use. Its transistor circuit
has extremely low battery drain and idling current of only
one quarter amp, less than that used by a car’s parking lights.

An AC power supply converter is available for the ampli-
fier which operates on the standard 110-125 volts, 50-60 cy-
cle AC. It weighs twenty-two pounds. Also offered is an
optional “phono-top” that plays all records up to twelve
inches at the popular speeds of 33%, 45, and 78 RPM, de-
signed for use with the mobile amplifier. It has a ceramic
flipover cartridge with sapphire needles. For full informa-
tion on the XIV-3230M amplifier and other Knight public-
address equipment, write for the new 1963 General Catalog
#220, availahle from Allied Radio Corporation, 100 North
Western Avenue, Chicago 80.

0 New slotted-angle, easy-to-erect steel framed stands solve
a seating problem common to many small, low-hndget ath-
letic programs. As a rule, conventionally built stands are
too expensive and time-consuming to build, particularly for
a “gratis” audience. Standard ten-, twelve- and fifteen-foot
lengths of AIM Brand framing come preinarked for cutting
in three-inch increments, are aligned through matching slots
and holes and holted together with gig-inch wrenches. For
further information, write to Acme Steel Company, 135th
Street and Perry Avenue, Chicago 27.

RECREATION

RESOURCE GUIDE

 

 

INDEX TO ADVERTISERS

Page
American Company  194
American Knitwear  159
American Playground Device __r--_._.-.  199
Ball-Boy ..--._.--.-.-_...._.__   157
CaraboCone .....__s-........--..--_-_-_-____..-.  169
Castello Fencing and Judo  188
Cedco  ___---___.--------------..n..--_....._-- 185
Classified Advertising __--..------.._-- -._--__ 206
Dayton Racquet __  _____n---------..._-_... 192
Dimco-Gray  185
Delmer Harris ______-___--__.--n__---__.r...----.__-- 194
Executive Secretary  194
Game-Time _  _ Inside Back Cover
General Indicator  159
Gold Medal -m- 192
Gymnastic Supply Company  160
Hanna Manufacturing 1---.-_.---..-----_._._.-_- 199
Harper and Row  159
Hillerich and Bradsby ....--._---_.._._.-_-_. 179-184
Heyer Manufacturing ....................... _- 195
Honda Associates -.___-__._-____--___-__----..-..---_- 159
Horan. Bill    -   206
Ice Skating Institute  185
J. E. Burke .__..___ ___._.-------.__--_.-._.._---_---__ 197
June Is Recreation Month __ Inside Back Cover
Kwikbilt _.-------..----_-..--.._.._.__-____..----.... a- 159
Mason Candies ___-__._-----._“hum---” 203
texico Forge ___-____-__..-.._--.._ Inside Front Cover
Monroe Company  __-____.___ 194
National Studios  185
New York University __   Inside Front Cover
1963 Round the World Tour ._ ___________ __- 194
Nissen Trampoline ._--_.._..---_._-------_.--._-___ 159
Playground Summer Notebook ___--__._--_-.-- 185
Plume Trading _.____._..-_......__--__....---- u“.-. 160
Recreation Equipment __.._-_.. Inside Front Cover
Sico Manufacturing Company -- Inside Back Cover
Swank Motion Pictures ___.. ___._____.__r_...__- 160
Tandy leather .. ........................... _.... 169
Toilaflex __ __ _ _-__._-----_..-__--- Inside Back Cover
Winnebago Crafts _.----_---._._......_-..._-__-._- 167
U. S. Army Special Services  204

 

APRIL, 1963

F AIDS—Please Write Directly To Sources Given

and Please Mention RECREATION Magazine

EQUIPMENT AND SUPPlIES

A NEW seams of parking-lot layout templates
includes six different plans. The tcmplates are
suitable for use in plotting many different
types of parking arrangements. They are es.
pecially adaptable to the layout of parking
areas for public buildings. Two templates
provide for 45odcgree parking, two for 60-
degree, and two for 90-dcgrec. Each permits
safe, convenient placement of the maximum
number of cars in any area. Scales arc one
inch to twenty feet and one inch to fifty feet.
For a free set of template c0pies, write
Maintenance Inc., Wooster, Ohio (ask for T-6).

A new PLANT :vUTrusNT with a one hundred-
percent base of organic pine bark is steam
impregnated with chemical micro-nutrients
that assure slower breakdown and steadicr,
more even, feeding action as the bark decomo
poses and becomes humus. Uniform disper-
sion of the plant nutrients prevents an over.
concentration in any one area and protects
against burning. In addition, the bark’s natu-
ral insulative properties protect plant roots
against heat, cold, and dryness. Greenir'fe
Plant Food is available in three-pound boxes
and in twenty-five. and fiftyopound bags. Fifty
pounds will cover up to six thousand square
feet. For further information, write to Green-
life Products Company, West Point, Virginia.

BE SEATED! A new twelve-page fully illus-
trated catalog on mass seating describes fold-
ing bleachers and folding chair stands, elec-
trically operated mechanical folding bleach-
ers, mobile folding bleachers, forward fold
gym seats, folding wall seats, steel deck grand-
stands, movable and portable bleachers, divid-
ing curtains, locker benches, golf driving
range, and basketball backstops. Complete
architect specifications, capacities, and dimen-
sion charts are included. For your c0py, write
to Seating Division, Berlin Chapman Com-
pany, Berlin, Wisconsin.

BAD news for rabbits and meadow mice.
Gardners and park men don’t care to share
sbrubs with our forest friends. To convince
these small ravagers to stay away, Spray with
Choperone, a new repellent devel0ped spe-
cifically for this purpose. One application ap-
plied to foliage, twigs, or bark will last three
to six months and will not wash off with rain
or snow. Cbaperone Rabbit and Deer Repel.
lent comes in a generous giant-size aerosol can,
easy to apply. Write to Department R43,
Sudbury Laboratory, Sudbury, Massachusetts.

Seams THAT TREE! Protect young trees and
shrubs from animals, bicycles, lawnmowers
and garden implements with a newly devel-
oped, rotproof tree guard. Made of poly-
ethylene, the lightweight protector contains
an impregnated dog repellent to protect both
tree and the ground around it. The self-

standing guard is buckled into place with
three straps, making it adjustable for various
trce diameters. Five polycthylenc stakes can
be individually adjustcd along the straps for
best positioning. For trimming and fertilizing,
the tree guard may be easily liftcd or un-
buckled. Thc green stakes and white straps
hlend well with the landscape and comc in two
heights, twenty-two and thirty-eight inches.
Further detailed information may be obtained
from the 11. Talbot Division, Tasol Corporao
tion, 125 Terrace Drive, Cincinnati 15, Ohio.

THE FULL TREATMENT. A new list of publicao
tions available from the Calcium Chloride In-
stitute contains a brief description of forty-two
upoto-date information pieces on the use of
calcium chloride. The information offered in-
cludes up of eleven pieces on snow and ice
control, twelve on various types of road con-
struction and maintenance with calcium
chloride, and six on calcium chloride in con-
crctc. Still more publications are offered on
the use of calcium chloride in tire weighting,
dust control, air-drying refrigeration, fire pro-
tection, and mineral trcatment. Order yOur
list of publications by writing to thc Calcium

Chloride Institute, 909 Ring Building, Wash-
ington 6, D.C.

PURE WHITE OAK. While most briqucts are
made from mixed hardwoods, Gregory briq-
ucts are made of one hundred percent pure
white oak which has a very higb carbon con-
tent and burns with a morc intense heat. This
results in the elimination of almost all wax
and gum residue. It also providcs a slow,
steady heat which is highly desirable for char-
coal cooking. This company also offers White
Hickory Smoke Wheels and White Hickory
Smoke Meal (used to add hickory flavor to
charcoal cooking), ThrceoWay Mulch (an or-
ganic, all-purpose plant food supplement),
Bright Tobacco Stem Meal (plant food sup-
plement which triples in use in dog kennels
and fowl range areas), Virginia Fire Logs
(decorative or wood-burning fireplace logs),
a lightweight, aluminum portable grill for
charcoal broiling outdoors, and Plate Mate
(spun-wire attachment to hold cup or glass).
For complete information on any of thcse
products, write to Colonel Stone Gregory,
Gregory Gcncral Farms, Java, Virginia.

SPECIAL EFFECTS. Unusual designs in cast alu-
minum and hronze identification tablets, dedi-
catory plaques, special designs. A complete
selection of cxterior and interior cast alumio
num and bronze letters. Color catalogue also
includes new ideas in custom-designed plaques
for buildings where an unusual effect is de-
sircd without the eitpense of sculpture work.
The manufacturer has specialized in fine, hand-
finished castings for over fifty years and is now
expanding to offer complete design, drafting,
and sales services. For a copy of tbis 1963
catalogue write to Art in Bronze Division,

201

Wooster Products Inc., Spruce Street, Woos-
ter, Ohio.

CREATrvr-t ENGINEERING. A complete product
line of pumps, generators, and agricultural
sprayers is covered in a new four-page bulletin
which illustrates a typical product in each of
the sixteen lines oflered, together with a pic-
torial indication of their many varied applica-
tions in both agriculture and industry. Bulle-
tin (3-62 may be obtained by writing Marlow
Pumps, Midland Park, New Jersey.

FIFTY STRONG. Full-size flags of all fifty statcs
have been assembled in a single, low-price
collection ($25 or $.50 a flag). Printed on
tough, polyethylene plastic, these flags can
withstand rain, sleet, and snow. Their intri-
cate, fascinating designs also make them ideal
for indoor displays; for parades; patriotic par«
ties, dances, and fetes; historic celebrations
and special occasions.

The history of state flags often reflects early
state history. For example, the buff back.
ground of the New Jersey banner was derived
from the Revolutionary War uniforms of the
New Jersey Continental regiments. The Mary-
land flag is one of the oldest in the world. It
bears the arms of the Calvert and Crossland
families. Calvert was the family name of the
lords of Baltimore who founded the state;
Crossland was the family name of the first
Lord Baltimore’s mother. Arkansas’ flag feae
tures three blue stars below the state name.
Each star represents one of the three nations
which have successfully laid claim to Arkan-
sas—Spain, France, and the United States.

Some state flags reflect poignant stories.
One of these is the flag of Alaska. It was de-
signed by a thirteen-year-old orphan boy who
entercd a public-school flag design contest
conducted by the American Legion in 1927.
Upon winning, he said, “The North Star in
my design stands for the future state of Alas.
ka.” One of the state flags, Idaho, contains
ninc colors which would test the printing abil-
ity of the most dedicated craftsman.

If a customer desires to use quantities of a
single state flag or the flags of only a few
states, these are also available in lots of fifty
for the same $25 price. For further informa-
tion write to Midland Plastics Company, 3001
East 30th Street, Indianapolis, Indiana.

A NEW CONCEPT in physical education, the
Athlete Builder machine, develops muscles in
every area of the body on completion of the
twenty step-by-stcp basic exercises provided in
an accompanying manual and presents an en.
joyahlc, safe, and economical program of
physical buildup for both young pe0ple and
adults. The machine has four stations: the
squat platform, the extention bench, the lat
bar, and the press bcnch. As many as twenty
pe0ple can use it in forty-five minute segments
by rotation at the stations. The machine can
be folded and stored in a small place. When
in use, it can be wheeled into a compact area
without damage to finished floors. Mainte-
nance problems are eliminated because of its
durable construction, tough plastic pads, and
unbreakable parts. Inquiries about the Ath-
lete Builder should be directed to the Athlete

Builder Corporation, National Station, Box
2493, Springfield, Missouri.

202

 

FILMS

LET ME COUNT THE wars. New York City,
which has heen wooed by countless admirers,
is being courted by the biggest one of them
all. It’s a tall, slim building with its feet
planted firmly on Fifth Avenue and its top
floating high over Manhattan. It is, of course,
the tallest building in the world . . . the Em-
pire State Building. The 1,472-foot building
serenades New York City in an enchanting
thirteen-and-a-half-minute color movie called,
appropriately enough, My City. According to
the opening titles, the Elm is “produced, di-
rected, written and narrated hy the Empire
State Building.”

In kaleidoscopic fashion, the Empire State
Building surveys the ever-changing patterns
of New York. Set to a musical score which
catches the diflerent rhythms of the city, the
film shows the movement through, over, and
under the streets. Most of the famous and
historical spots in New York are shown in
striking color scenes as the camera roves rest-
lessly back and forth between the two rivers
which encircle Manhattan, from as far north
as The Cloisters to as far south as the Statue
of Liberty.

The variety of sounds in New York are
given poetic visualization in a section of the
film which contrasts the quiet of the Cloisters
with the bustle of a Greenwich Village art
show, the morning sounds of New York’s many
churches with the noisy blare of nightclubs.
The fihn concludes with night scenes of New
York, catching the glitter of Times Square
and then the whole sparkling city as viewed
from the top of thc Empire State Building.

The new 16MM film is available for free
showings on television and at schools, clubs,
and lodges from the Institute of Visual Come
munication, Inc., 40 East 49th Street, New
York 17.

WINTER roarar. A new 165”! color motion
picture for ski experts and tyros alike, ASpen—
Winter Mood, highlights a winter holiday of
skiing and relaxation at Colorado's famous
Rocky Mountain ski resort. The 28-minute
film shows slalom, downhill, and jump compe«
titions; ski classes where enthusiasts as young
as three learn from the experts; and profes-
sional skiers cutting graceful patterns on As-
pen’s snow-covered slopes. To convey the
scnsation of skiing, many of the scenes were
actually filmed on skis along the swift, wind-
ing trails and on the two-mile continuous de-
scent. Prints are available from the regional
libraries of Association Films: Broad at Elm,
Ridgefield, New Jersey; 561 Hillgrove Avenue,
La Grange, Illinois; 799 Stcvcnson Street, San
Francisco; and 1621 Dragon Street, Dallas,
Texas.

THE ateuT T0 BEAR ARMS. Sports clubs may
obtain on loan a 1631M movie, The Right to
Keep and Bear Arms, in color with sound.
Craig Stevens, TV's Peter Gunn, lends his
talents to the film which traces the develop.
mcnt of and growing interest in the shooting
sports. Audiences are shown how the man
with the rifle (the Kentucky rifle is featured)
pushed hack the wilderness and helped to
fashion our great American heritage. The film
is available from the National Rifle Associa«
tion, 1600 Rhode Island Avenue, N.W., Wash-
ington 6, D.C.

 

[OW-008T ADS

Order these resources and references di-
rectly from source given (enclose remittance).

FUN AND scenes. The enthusiastic response
to the Trick or Treat for UNICEF Halloween
program by young people of high-school and
college age has led to the formation of YOU—-
Youth Out for UNICEF—under the auspices
of the United States Committee for UNlCEF.
YOU offers students many opportunities to
assist the United Nations Children’s Fund.
Through programs of education and commu-
nity service, YOU members learn about the
work of the Children’s Fund and the great
needs it is helping 115 governments to meet.

The films and filmstrips of the U.S. Com«
mittee form a good basis for programs. Inter-
national festivals, fashion shows, dinners.
dances, and hobby and handcraft exhibitions
are a few of the activities undertaken by YOU
members. From the U.S. Committee they may
obtain for $5.00 a set of thirty colored slides
with a script to set the stage for a discussion
of the needs of children throughout the world.
Money may be raised by penny admission
charges and by service projects such as car
washing, baby sitting, dog walking, tutoring,
and thc sale of UNICEF greeting cards.

The U.S. Committee has educational and
promotional brochures which are free on re-
quest. Its six Hi Neighbor books earry stories
about how children livc in some of the coun-
tries receiving UNICEF assistance and give
ideas for costumes, games, and dances, as well
as recipes. Each book is supplemented by a
recording with songs and dances from the
countries covered in thc book. For further in-

formation, write the U.S. Committee for UNI-
CEF, United Nations, New York.

DEPOSIT on NO DEPOSIT . . . save that bottle,
be it a glass cider jug, pickle jar, or cold-
cream container, for attractive glasscraft proj-
ects. A glass hobby contest sponsored by the
Glass Bottle Blowers Association resulted in
more than 550 entries. The prize-winning ideas
are included in a pamphlet, How To Malre
Useful Articles for the Home from Class Bot-
tles, which supplies directions for such proj-
ects as a sewing shelf (cheese jars), salt and
pcpper shakcrs (shampoo bottle), terrariunt
(pickled hcrring jar), tobacco humidor (Illa-

son far), and teddy bear bank (syrup jar).
Available for $.25 from Sportshclf, P.O. Box
634, New Rochelle, N.Y.

Do's, nox’rs, AND mavens. A boon companion
for the ever-growing tide of rcercation mari-
ncrs, Outboard Boating Skills, a forty-eight-
page manual, covers everything from care of
boats and motors to trailer boating and the
weather . . . and what to do about it. The man-
ual contains common-sense pointers as well as
technical know-how and explores the many
activities that can be combined with boating:
camping, water skiing, hunting and fishing,
mass cruises. This is a good basic resource for
your family boating program and clubs. Avail.
able for $.25 from Evinrude Motors, 4143 N.
27th Street, Milwaukee 16, Wisconsin, or
Evinrude dealers. (Evinrude also 05ers a free
book on water skiing.)

Remnanon

 

R FOR THE ILL €99 HANDICAPPED

 

+ The Sewall Rehabilitation Center,
Operated by the Denver, Colorado, So-
ciety for Crippled Children and Adults,
has initiated an unusual pilot program
for children with asthma and other pul-
monary conditions. Under the pro-
gram, complete physical conditioning
is conducted in a recreation situation,
including breathing exercises, gymnas-
tics, judo, and boxing. Though the ac-
tivities are performed in a group, each
child competes with himself rather than
with the group and the activities are
tailored to individual capacities. Judo
and boxing activities have proven es-
pecially useful and popular as they help
to overcome feelings of inferiority de-
ve10ping from weakness and lack of
physical development.

Measures of progress include fre-
quency of respiratory attacks, how the
child sleeps, how well home instructions
are carried out, how well the child par-
ticipates in the group, and impressions
of progress physically and psychologi-
eally. There is a graded activities chart
for muscle-building activities, on which
the child‘s progress in tolerance of
physical exertion is recorded. There is
an initial description of deformities and
recording of outstanding weakness.
This is checked against a final descrip-
tion and muscle examination.

The program consists of twice-week-
ly sessions over a nine-month period
and is open to children with various
types of respiratory conditions, cystic
fibrosis, asthma, and emphysema. They
must have the permission of their phy-
sician to participate, with a brief medi-
cal history, diagnosis, and treatment,
together with identifying information.
Reports on the child’s progress are sent
to the physician regularly at three-
month intervals.

Impetus for the program came from
the success of similar projects at King’s
College, London, and in Charleston,
West Virginia. In addition to Sewell,
forty other centers is this country are
now undertaking similar programs.—
From Chronic Newsletter, December,

I 962. ‘

’i‘ Meyer Screiber, director of group
work, recreation, and camping for the
Association for the Help of Retarded
Children, 200 Park Avenue South, New

 

DR. THOMPSON is acting director of the
National Recreation Association Con-
snltin g Service on Recreation for the Ill
and Handicapped.

APRIL, 1963

York 3, reports that the following ma-

MORTON THOMPSON, Ed.D.

terials are available. from his agency:
' Proceedings, Second Annual Institute
on Group "York and Recreation with
the Mentally Retarded ($1.00).

' Proceedings, First Annual Institute
on Camping with the Mentally Retarded
($1.00).

' Tltc Retarded Child Goes to Camp:
a Guide for Parents (free with self-ad-
dressed envelope) .

’i‘ The United Hospital Fund of New
York, 3 East 54th Street, New York,
has scheduled a volunteer training
course in recreation for May 6-8.

+ Fellowships for graduate study in
therapeutic recreation are available for
the academic year 1963-64. This edu-
cational assistance program adminis-
tered by Comeback, Inc. and now in its
second year, has been established to
help meet the pressing need for profes-
sionally prepared consultants, research
workers, administrators, and educators
in the field of therapeutic recreation.
Applications will be accepted until Ap-
ril 15, 1963. Application forms can be
obtained by writing to the following
colleges and universities:

Columbia University: Dr. Richard
G. Kraus, Major Advisor, Recreation
Curriculum, Interdepartmental Pro-
gram in Rehahilitation Services, Teach-

ers College, Columhia University, 525
West 120th Street, New York.

New York University: Dr. Edith
Ball, Major Advisor, Recreation Cur-
riculum, Department of Health, Physi-
cal Education and Recreation, School
of Education, New York University.
Washington Square, New York.
University of Illinois: Charles K.
Brigbtbill, Head, Department of Rec-
reation and Municipal Park Adminis-
tration, University of Illinois, Urbana,
Illinois.

University of Minnesota: Dr. Fred
M. Chapman, Major Advisor, Recrea-
tion Curriculum, Department of Physi-
cal Education and Athletics, University
of Minnesota, Minneapolis.
University of North Carolina: Dr.
Harold Meyer, Chairman, Recreation
Curriculum, Department of Sociology,
University of North Carolina, Chapel
Hill, North Carolina.

San Francisco State College: Dr.
John L. Hutchinson, Major Advisor,
Graduate Program in Recreation Edu-
cation, Recreation Department, San
Francisco State College, Holloway Ave-
nue, San Francisco, California.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

 

Your Group can raise
$100 to $2500 mill
to 15 Days without
Risk or Investment
through Mason’s
Protected Fund

   
 

  
  

Your luol
Organ-motto"

     
   

$1
L I-
man {#3:
o ( (U3);

Thousands of groups throughout the
country have successfully conducted fa-
mous MASON PHOTECTED FUND-RAISING
Dmvns, raising money quickly and com-
pletcly without risk or investment. We
supply a choice of top-quality MASON
candies, beautifully boxed. At no charge
to you, each ackage has an attractive,
printed band, earing your organization 3
name, picture and slogan. \Ve even PRE-
PAY shipping charges! You make a big
NET PHOFIT of 66% % (40¢ on every box
that costs you 60¢) and you pay NOTHING
until AFTER your drive is over. Anything
remaining unsold may be returned for-
full credit. For compkjg information
without obligation, write us or [ill in the
coupon below.

 

:- ————————— ———-—-1
l MR. GEORGE RAUSCH, Dept. 766 :

Mason, Box 800. Mineola. N. Y.

Gentlemen: Please send me, without obiiga- I
tion, information on your F and Raising Plan. I

(II under 21 )___._ I

 

0rganization___________._.___————-—-

I
I
I
I Age l
I
I
I
I

I How many members

 

L..__._._. _______ __

Mason Candies, Inc., Mineola, L. 1., NJ?

203

Hi there, Miss Barton . . .
Welcome to Army
Special Services

ARMY SPECIAL SERVICES
OIVILIAN JOBS HAVE
MANY ADVANTAGES

0 International Travel
0 Living Overseas

0 New Friends

0 Career Development

Non-routine jobs that appeal
to the active girl with a flair
for working with peOple. If
you have the appropriate
background and experience
plus the imagination to plan
leisure hour activities for
others . . . then a civilian
career with Army Special Serv-
ices is right for you.

Professional jobs in the fields
of Recreation Leadership and
Librarianship are Open to
single girls, minimum age 21.
College degree or equivalent
in specialized experience are
basic requirements.

FOR INFORMATIONAL BROCHURE WRITE:

SPECIAL SERVICES
RECRUITMENTSECTION,IRCB
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
WASHINGTON 25, D. C. (G-BS)

 

204’ When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

A Reporter’s Notebook

Continued from Page 199

 

the Children’s Christmas Pageant,
joined the department in October 1921.
Her eo-workers honored her with a
city-wide “Helen Hopkins lverson
Night” celebration and program.

Raymond Forsherg, director of ree-
reation in Waterloo. Iowa, was recent-
ly awarded the “Service to Mankind
Award” presented annually by the
Waterloo-Cedar Falls Sertoma Club.
Mr. Forsberg has also won the Ser-
toma’s Club’s district “Service to Man-
kind Award,” which includes all of the
clubs in Iowa.

Dr. Paul E. Klopsleg has received the
Larry C. Whifien Memorial Award for
his outstanding contribution to the fur-
therance and promotion of archery in
the United States. Dr. Klopsteg, of Glen-
view, Illinois, is the third recipient of
the award. Dr. Klopsteg, formerly a di-
rector of research at Northwestern
Technological Institute, is one of Amer-
ica’s outstanding scientists. He served
as a consultant to the government dur-
ing World War II and has received nu-
merous honors and recognitions for his
public service. His avoeation is archery,
and he was awarded the Compton Medal
of Honor last year by the National Field
Archery Association.

From 1929 through 1943, Dr. Klop-
steg contributed many scientific articles
on archery and on research of bow de-
sign. Notable contributions include
Turkish Archery and the Composite
Bow in 1947. In the same year, he eo-
authored Archery and the Technical
Side with C. N. Hickman and Forrest
Nagler. Proceeds from the sale of the
latter publication were assigned by the
authors to the National Field Archery
Association and the National Archery
Association for the promotion and bene-
fit of the sport of archery.

 

IN MEMORIAM

 

0 DON SHARP, chief of recreation at the
Fort Lyon, Colorado, Veterans Admin-
istration Hospital, died in March at the

age of thirty-nine. Before settling in 3
Colorado in 1958, Mr. Sharp had been
chief of recreation at the Muskogee,
Oklahoma, Veterans Administration
Hospital for nine years.

0 BEECHER BOWDISH, who devoted his
entire career to the New Jersey Audu-
bon Society, died in February one week
before his ninety-first birthday. Mr.
Bowdish was a noted hird bander;
when he stopped banding in December
1958, he had been pursuing this ac-
tivity for forty-five years. A militant
fighter for conservation legislation, he
once said that it took ten years to obtain
legislation to protect the bobolink as
a songbird. The society’s first hill in
the New Jersey State Legislature was
defeated in 1915. enacted in 1921, re-
pealed in 1922, and re-enaeted in 1925.
He also inspired Audubon members in
efforts to protect nesting eliii swallows,
to win enactment of legislation desig-
nating the goldfinch as the New Jersey
state bird, to prohibit commercial gath-
ering of bittersweet, to oppose a shoot-
ing season on mourning doves, and he
led the society in its successful fight
against the Passaie Valley Flood Con-
trol Commission’s proposal to flood

Troy Meadows.

0 BERT SWENSON, retired superintend-
ent of recreation in Stockton, Cali-
fornia, died in February at the age of
During his thirty-six
year career, he helped make Stockton’s
recreation program one of California’s
best. When he came to Stockton in 1918
as superintendent of playgrounds, the
city had a four-year-old playground de-
partment but lacked swimming pools.
public golf courses, softball diamonds,
spacious parks, and much in the way of
an organized program. Under Mr.
Swenson’s direction, all that was
changed. He and his wife dedicated
their lives to make Stockton’s recrea-
tion and youth programs outstanding.
Perhaps his best-known achievement
was the establishment of the family
summer camp at Silver Lake in 1922.
It has enabled thousands of families to
enjoy vacationing in the high Sierras
at modest cost. Swenson Park, a 180-
aere area which includes an eighteen-
hole golf course, was dedicated in honor
of Mr. Swenson and his wife, Stella, in

1952.

seventy-seven.

RECREATION

NEW PUBLICATIONS

 

The Day Camp Program Book, Vir—
ginia Musselman. Association Press,
29l Broadway, New York 7. Pp. 378,
illustrated. $7.95."c

Here is an activity manual for day-
camp counselors which will prove to be
a key resource book for all phases of
day-camp program development. There
is a clear formulation of today’s philoso-
phy of day camping, its aims and pur-
pose, and how to achieve them through
a well-balanced program. This publica-
tion is the first-comprehensive analysis
of day-camp program.

The author enables the day-camp di-
rector to provide new values especially
related to day camps. To meet goals and
enhance the reputation of day camps, a
random selection of activities and proj-
ects which a day camp requires is
broadly treated so that a program can
be planned under whatever auspices the
camp is administered or wherever the
camp is located. The section devoted to
related program includes many exam-
ples and types of activities needed for
rainy, hot, or humid days. Even the
more experienced directors and coun-
selors will find many novel ideas and
apt suggestions on how to pick optimum
activities for special settings in any lo-
cation.

Of particular significance is the em-
phasis on the children from five to early
teens, including youngsters with disabil-
ities as well as special abilities. The sug-
gestions for program activities are sure-
ly consistent with principles of child de-
velopment. The author shows unusual
ability to present creative activities,
many of which require little equipment
——simple crafts, songs and drama, sports
and games, and new ideas for space-age
and for bus travel.

The chapter on day-camp emergen-
cies shows that the how-to-do in acci-
dents and other emergencies can be
good activity for day campers; it em-
phasizes the importance of learning the
value of prevention and stresses that this
is a most useful lesson day campers
should learn early. Appendices include
the olhcial day-camp standards of Amer-
ican Camping Association, the health
and safety check list for day camps of
New York City Department of Health,
a bibliography of further resources for
successful day camping and program
ideas, and a classified index.

Every chapter of this book empha-
sizes the inestimable value of a day-
camper’s experience that can be stimu-

*Available from Recreation Book Center, 8
West 81h Street, New York 11.

APRIL, 1963

lated to develop his full potential. In
this and other ways. a day-carnper’s in-
tellectual, emotional, spiritual, physical,
and social needs as an individual and as
a young citizen will he met. As a practi-
cal guide this is a valuable contribution
to day camping and all people involved
in day-camp program development.—

Gretchen H. Y offa.

School Dances and Proms, Marietta
Abell and Agnes J. Anderson. T. S.
Denison and Company, 321 Fifth Ave-
nue South, Minneapolis l5. Pp. 362.
$3.95.

The newest thing about this book is
its covcrl The various party and prom
plans in it have been reprinted from
some older collection dating from the
late ’20’s or early ’30’s to the late ’40’s.
Current famous movies stars in one of
the parties include Clara Bow, Shirley
Temple, and Charlie Chaplin! Refer-
ences in this book have not been
checked, unfortunately, nor has it been
proof-read very carefully. Authors’
names, and in too many instances their
addresses. are either inaccurate or mis-
spelled. Therefore, other inaccuracies
are hound to follow. (Denison has not
been at 220 Fifth Avenue, New York,
for many years.) Some of the books
listed were published in the ’30’s, are
no longer in print.

It is really too bad that the publishers
did not edit the parties with greater
care, because many of them are planned
around good ideas that were probably
excellent in their day, and might be
adaptable to today’s idea of what is
good—even though their factual mate-
rial is inaccurate.

Rainy Day Fun for Kids, Claire Cox.
Association Press, 291 Broadway, New
York 7. Pp. 256. $3.95.*

This book is unusual in that its classi-
fied index is part of its program content.
For example, one of its chapters asks
“Which of These Situations Is Nearest
Yours?” and then lists a number of
rainy day dilemmas. Under each is a
listing of appropriate games, stunts,
crafts, et cetcra. Each of these is in-
cluded in the alphabetical description
or directions in the last 164 pages. A
long listing of odds and ends having
play possibilities, and a chapter on
where to find what make up the remain-
der of the book.

Many harrassed mothers, babysitters,
and leaders will find a number of ideas
that they can use successfully from
among the more than five-hundred sug-
gestions.

 

IN BRIEF

SPOTLIGHT 0N DRAMA IN CAMP, Bar-
bara Winslow. American Camping As-
sociation, Martinsville, Indiana. Pp.
25. $.75. Three publications on drama
have appeared recently in the group
work field, the present one, Spotlight on
Drama in Camps, Stagecraft for Boys
Clubs issued by Boys Clubs of America,
and Drama Is Recreation issued by the
National Recreation Association. These
publications, although designed for spe-
cial purposes, have one thing in com-
mon: they regard drama as an art, how-
ever simple its form, not as a stunt.
Barbara Winslow examines the for-
mal drama program, creative dramatics,
dramatic situations, and provides prac-
tical answers. Part II deals with prob-
lems of leadership and equipment costs;
Part III with evaluation; Part IV sup-
plies useful references. Spotlight on
Drama will cheer the hearts of leaders
and participants who are looking for a
sound philosophy for drama in the camp
pr0gram.—Siebolt Frieswyk.

FLOWERS 0F FIELD AND FOREST, Clar-
ence J. H ylander. Macmillan Company,
60 Fifth Avenue, New York 11. Pp.
231, illustrated. $4.50. A unique
method of identifying wild flowers
makes this book interesting for begin-
ners and more experienced naturalists
alike. We learn that wild flowers have
“likes” and “dislikes,” and personali-
ties as well. The author takes you from
the forests of Maine to the dry deserts of
Southern California and ex lains why
the flowers differ in color and) structure,
and so forth. Another excellent addi-
tion to a nature library.

FOR THE YOUNG VIEWER, Ralph Garry,
F. 3., Rainsberry and Charles Winich,
Editors, McGraw-Hill, 330 West 42ml
Street, New York 36. Pp. 181. $5.95.
This publication describes 425 TV pro-
grams for children presented by 252 TV
stations. Descriptions cover programs
of exploration, doing, storytelling, ori-
entation, and multi-purpose programs.
Guidelines for programing, sources of
material, and list of stations are in-
cluded. Recreation leaders will not only
be pleased generally with the types of
programs described, but will readily
see many opportunities for informing
the public about recreation activities in
which children participate and may par-
ticipate. TV has more than “violence”
to offer children, as this volume con-
vincingly demonslrates.

205

 

BOOKS 8. PAMPHLETS RECEIVED

 

FAMILY

Brief Encounters in Family Living, Jeon Schick
Gressmon. Plov‘b .hools Association 41 W. 57th

S -nlew York ‘ . 1p. ' ". Paper, $.75.

Family Book of Fun, The, Shirley ond' Monroe
.‘oxmon. (Prentice-Hall, Englewood CIIffS, NJ.
F . ‘3’ . . :.‘.' .

Fun with the Kids, Shori Lewis. Doubleday, Garden
City, N.Y. Unpoged. $3.95.

Safety in Your Home, Sportshelf, P.O. Box 634,
New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 3 I. Poper, $1.00.

HEALTH, PHYSICAL FITNESS

Basic Facts on the Health and Economic Status of
Older Americans (87th Congress 1st Session).
13.5. Govt. Printing Office, Washington. Pp. 38.
9.15.

ORDER NOW!

“There’s N 0 School

Like M y School!”

Bill Horan's
Up-to-the-Minute
Manual for the
Cheerleader Sponsor

Send $2.00 to: BILL HORAN,
P. 0. Box 101
South Miami, Fla.

 

 

Be Active and Feel Better, Donold A. and Eleanor
C. Laird. McGrow-Hill, 330 W. 42nd St., New
York 36. Pp. 214. $4.95.

Controlled Exercise for Physical Fitness, J. R.
Peebler. Charles C. Thomas, 301-327 E. Law-
rence Ave., Springfield, Ill. Pp. 188. $6.75.

Evaluation Process in Health Education, Physical
Education, and Recreation, The, Marjorie Lot-
chow, Cormille Brown. Prentice-Hall, Engle-
wood Cliffs, N. J. Pp. 267. $7.65.

Health in Elementary Schools, Leslie W. Irwon,
Harold J. Carnocchia, ond Wesley M. Stoton.
C. V. Mosby, 3207 Washington Blvd., St. Louis
3,Mo. Pp. 440. $5.90.

History of Health Education in the United States,
A, Richard K. Means. Leo Cr Febiger, 600 Wash-
ington Sq.,Philodelphio 6. Pp. 412. $8.50.

Making of American Physical Education, The, Ar-
thur Weston. Appleton-Century-Crafts, 35 W.
32nd St., New York 1. Pp. 319. $5.00.

Multiple Sclerosis—New Hope in on Old Mystery,
Jules Soltmon. Public Affairs Pamphlets, 22 E.
38th St., New York 16. Pp. 28. Paper, $.25.

Positive Health, Joseph Edmundson. Sportshelf,
P.O. Box 634, New Rochelle. Pp. 198. $5.00.

Professional Preparation in Health Education,
Physical Education, Recreation Education.
Amer. Assoc. for Health, Physical Education and
Recreation, 1201 16th St. N.W., Washington 6,
D.C. Pp. 159. Paper, $2.00.

Teaching Aids for Health, Physical Education and
Recreation, Thomas E. Flonigon. Teaching Aids
Librory, P.O. Box 27, Mokeno, Ill. Pp. 54. Pa-
per, $1 .50.

SPORTS, PHYSICAL EDUCATION

Activities on P.E. Apparatus, Joseph Edmundson
and Jack Garstang. Sportshelf, P.O. Box 634,
New Rochelle, N. Y. Pp. 197. $5.00.

American Football League (I962 Official Guide),
Al Word. Sporting News, 2018 Washington
Ave., St. Louis 66, Mo. Pp. 94. Paper, $1.00.

American League Story, The, Lee Allen. Hill and
330618, 141 5th Ave., New York 10. Pp. 242.

American Shotgunner, The, Francis E. Sell. Stock-
pole Co., Tetegro h Press Bldg., Comeron Cr
Kelker Sts., Horris urg, Pa. Pp. 301. $6.95.

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

RATES: Words in regular type $.15 each
Words in boldface type $.25 each
Minimum ad accepted .. .. $3.00

DEADLINES: Copy must be received by
the fifth of the month preceding date of
the issue in which ad is desired.

COPY: Type—or clearly print—your message and the address to which you wish
replies sent. Underline any words you want to appear in boldface type.

Send copy with remittance to:

RECREATION Classified Advertising, 8 West Eighth Street, New York I], New York.

 

I IELP WANTED

Director of Recreation
and Parks. Responsibili-

Parks Committee. City Hall,
Monclon, N.B., Canada.

Iege graduate with recrea-

tion major. Salary from
$5,200 to $5,500 to start. Ap-

ties include social and phys-
ical recreation programs on
playgrounds, totlots, out-
door rinks, school-based
recreation centers; super-
vision, leadership training
and minor sports promo-
tion; park planning and de-
velopment. Qualifications:
m in i m um requirements,
bachelor’s degree in physi-
cal education/group work
and recreation/general
arts; two year’s graduate
studies and/or program ad-
ministration experience;
extensive full-time recrea-
tion experience may be sub-
stituted. Salary range:
$5,000-S7,200, commensur-
ate with education and ex-
p e r i c n c e qualifications.
Date of commencement:
May 1, 1963 preferred; in-
tervicw arranged on or be-
fore April 1. Apply to Al-
derman J. F. E. White,
Chairman. Recreation and

Therapists for California
State Hospitals. Opportu-
nity to plan and conduct
individual patient recrea-
tion as well as special
group activities; modern
equipment and facilities
available. Positions open to
college graduates with ma-
jor in recreation or recrea-
tion therapy, which in clad-
ed supervised field work.
No cxpcrience required.
Starting salary $463.00 per
month; promotional Oppor-
tunities; Iiheral employee
benehts. Write State Per-
sonnel Board, 801 Capitol
Avenue, Sacramento, Cali-
fornia.

Assistant Director of
Recreation for the Town-
ship of Springfield, New
Jersey. Work as a Program
Supervisor and Director of
Leagues. Must supervise
some activities. Require col-

ply Edw. J. Ruby, Director
of Recreation, Municipal
Building, Springfield, New
Jersey.

Recreation Supervisor I
~36,168 - $7,920. Age 25-
55. Degree in recreation or
related field, plus consider-
able experience, including
supervision in a recrea-
tional activity. Position is
that of District Supervisor
in charge of a geographical
section of the city contain-
ing approximately twenty-
two square miles with fifty
thousand residents. If a
challenging career with the
nation’s fastest growing
city c0upled with the eas-
ual, year-round outdoor
living of our fabulous “Val-
ley of the Sun" interests you,
apply immediately to Roh-
ert W. Galloway. Personnel
Supervisor, 324 W est Wash-
ington, Phoenix 3, Arizona.

The publisher assumes no responsibility for services or items advertised here.

206

Baseball the Maior League Way, Don Weiskopf.

Ronald Press, 15 E. 26th St., New York 10. Pp.
223. $6.00.

Inside Big League Baseball, Roger Kohn.
Enlillgosn, 60 5th Ave., New York 11.

Inside Forward (Know the Gome—-———Cooch Yourself
Series), Walter Winterbottom. Sportshelf, P.O.
S$35534, New Rochelle, N. Y. Pp. 32. Paper,

Instant Tennis, Dick Brodlee. Devin—Adair, 23 E.
26th St., New York 10. Pp. 100. $3.95.

Official Baseball Rules. Sporting News, St. Louis
66. Pp. 86. $.50.

Official 1962-63 National Basketball Association
Guide. Charles C. Spink, 2018 Washington Ave.,
St. Louis 66. Pp. 254. Paper, $1.00.

Official World's Series Records (1903-1962).
Spdrting News, 2018 Woshington Ave., St. Louis
66, Ma. Pp. 322. Paper, $2.00.

Teach Yourself Archery, M. E. Richardson. Sport-
shelf, P.O. Box 634, New Rochelle, N. Y. Pp.
127. $2.00.

Tennis Handbook, Bill Murphy and Chet Murphy,
Editors. Ronald Press, 15 E. 26th St., New York
10. Pp.345. $5.50.

Track and Field Athletics, D. G. A. Lowe. Sport-

Moc-
Pp. 98.

shelf, P.O. Box 634, New Rochelle. Pp. 116.
$3.75.
Triple-Past Offense, The, Fred “Tex” Winter.

Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, N. J. Pp. 228.
$6.00.

Trampoline Tumbling, Lorry Griswold. A. S. Barnes,
1 1 E. 36th St., New Yark. Pp. 120. $3.50.

Young Sportsman's Guide to Canaeing, The, Roy-
mond R. Comp. Thomas Nelson, 18 E. 41st St.,
New York I7. Pp. 95. $2.50.

SCIENCE

Allied Electronics Data Handbook l3rd ed.), Nel-
son M. Cooke, Editor. AIIIECI Radio Corp., 100
£1.35Western Ave., Chicago 80. Pp. 80. Poper,

Antony Van Leeuwenhoek and His "Little Ani-
mals," Clifford Dobell. Dover Publ., I80 Vorick
St., New York 14. Pp. 435. POper, $2.25.

A.R.R.L. Antenna Baak. Amer. Rodio Relay

League, West Hartford, Conn. Pp. 318. Paper,
$2.00.

Bay's Book of Engineering Wonders of the World,
The, Leonard Bertin. Ray Publ., 30 E. 74th St.,
New York 2|. Pp. 144. $3.75.

Educators Guide to Free Sclence Materials l3rd ed.
1962). Educotors Progress Service, Rondolph,
Wis. Pp. 307. Paper, $7.25.

First Fllght, Lou and Zeno Shumsky. Funk Cr Wag—
nolls, 360 Lexington Ave., New York 17. Pp.
147. $2.95.

Fun-Time Radio Building, Joseph A. Smith. Chil-
drens Press, JockSOn Blvd. C7 Rocine Ave., Chi-
cogo 7. Pp. 63. $2.50.”I

Life of Pasteur, The, Rene Vollery-Radot. Dover
Publ., 180 Vorick St., New York 14. Pp. 484.
Paper, $2.00.

* For younger readers

MAGAZINE ARTICLES

ARTS and ACTIVITIES, March 1963
Summer Sculptors, Irving Berg.
Quick Clay Cutouts, Edith Brockay.
Serious in the Service (silk screen posters),
Alice Ehrlich.

PARENTS' Magazine, March 1963
They All Fall Down, Morvin R. Weisbord.
A Bridge to the Post (historic places), Edith
Fisher Hunter.
Who's Afraid of the Big,
Rachel Bennett.

SAFETY EDUCATION, February 1963
Toys In the Classroom.
Freak Squeaks of 1962

Tom Dodds.

SCHOOL ACTIVITIES, Februory 1963
Discourse of a "Sometime" Play Director, Lock-
ett Chombers.
How Many Extracurricular
Enough? Harry C. McKown.
...................... .., March 1963
The Science Club, Frederick A. Lowrence.
I Am Working Towards a Photography Club,
Winifred C. Kaiser.
Pupils Capitalize on Hobbies, Curn C. Horvey.
Rx for Tired Club Programs, Devon Dovidson.

TODAY'S HEALTH, March 1963
They Make Child‘s Play of Speech Therapy,
Charles R. Carver.
To Exercise or Not to Exercise, John J. Lentz.

Bad Teen-Agers?

loffbeot accidents) ,

Activities Are

RECREATION

NATIONAL
RECREATION
MONTH

_ , 6575010”

 
  
   
 

 

 

Sponsored by
NATIONAL
RECR EATlON

ASSOCIATlON Are you ready

to 90 in June?

SHOWCASE FOR ALL YOUR
RECREATION PROJECTS

Geared to every age group

For inlarmatron. nuts
NATIONAL RECREAIIUN ASSIICIATIIJN o 8 W. Elll ST.,N[’N TURN ll.N. T.

 

Clear messy, stuffed toilets
Cut maintenance costs with

    

Ordinary plungers don’t seat
properly. They permit com-
pressed air and water to splash
back. Thus you not only have
a mess, but you lose the very
pressure you need to clear the
obstruction.

With “TOILAFLEX”, ex-
pressly designed for toilets, no
air or water can escape. The
full pressure plows through the
clogging mass and swishes it
down. Can’t missl

 
   
   
   
   
    
 
   
    
 
    
      
       
   
   

 
 

0 Double Clip, double-pressure Get a "TOllAl’lEX" for you: #031: float,
° ° ' ' o ' ° ts u e at e .
I Tapered tall gives air-tight tit mm" '""’"’"‘° "9""5

0 Designed to flex at any angle $265
0 Centers, can’t Skid around Higher in Canada

AVAILABLE AT YOUR HARDWARE SUPPLIER

GAME—TIME
SADDLE MATES

NOWl Cast in One Piece Aluminum

A WHIMSICAL WORLD OF COLORFUL
ALUMINUM ANIMALS . . .

Indestructible, 1 piece oluminum is finished with
colorful baked epoxy point to withstond. the rough

0nd tumble activity of eager youngsters.

. 79 Pony $48.50
. 175 Donkey $48.50
. l7] Elephant $64.50
. 172 Hippopotamus $64.50
. 173 Turtle $64.50
. 174 Pelican $64.50

RUSH ORDER

Also available: Saddle Mates
an swings, portable bases,
pull-a-raund, scaat-a-raund.

WRITE FOR FREE CATALOG All Saddle Mates shown are an
Prices F.0.B. litchiield, Mich. Game-Time's Na. 89 Spring.

GAME-TIME, INC.

616 lonesville Road Litchfield, Michigan

Subsidiary at' Simpson Mfg. Company
Manulacturers of Imagineered Playground Equipment

 

roll it in . . . .PLAY
roll it out. . .TUCK IT AWAY

 

Any room can become a game room in seconds with the Sico
TUCK-AWAY. It rolls and unfolds quickly, safely. Exclusive
“Floating Fold” enables one person to open or close the
table in 3 seconds. Full regulation size—yet folds to only
18” x 60” for storing. USTTA approved for official tourna-
ment play. The TUCK-AWAY provides an efficient solution
to the need for leisure time relaxation—in industry, hotels,
schools, hOSpitaIS, and other institutions. Get complete
information on the TUCK-AWAY by writing.

00 MANUFACTURING COMPANY, INC.

5215 Eden Ave. 80., Minneapolis, Minn., Dept. 406

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

j

Pamphlet Series—The Performing Arts as Recreation

out of

the shell

and on

 

its toes

DANCE IS RECREATION

This latest pamphlet in the above series is available separately and in sets.

Order in QUANTITY LOTS

No. I —-MUSIC ' IS RECREATION
No. I] r DRAMA IS RECREATION
No. "L DANCE IS RECREATION
Use with
Your staff Your board or commission
Advisory committees Citizen connnittccs
Clubs Planning groups
And for
Fund raising Promotion of bond issues
Publicity Selling recreation
Education Training of volunteers

Program Planning Telling your story

Current prices
Set of three titles—$2.50

11 to 24 copies of same title—$.85 each 0 25 or more—$.75
100 or over of same title—$65 per hundred

Single copies—$1.00

Order from

N.+Yl‘l(“)NAl_t RECREATION ASSOCIATION 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, N. Y.

 

