‘T'IONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION - DECEMBER 1963 0 60C

 

  

: SEASQN’S
 GREETINGS

 

 

ALL-AMERICAN HEAVY-DUTY

  

s... 4. s.  s - -'--  ':
W

‘1' 1, LII-r )

' at . -- "' :

 
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
 

"s  ' ‘ . ~'-‘.1" " '4 - v- - II-ah‘r
gr  sax“ _ _ ‘ Q  I n
at. I :I:

Features Not Found
In Any Other Grill

 Built just like a small, com-

plete cooking range. Positive
Portable I

.  Stationary 6-way draft control gives faster,
model IS as ,1:-  '

model for . . . .
eas1er kindling, saves fuel, in-

illustrated, permanent , , ,

with heavy instauation sures tenderer, Junc1er steaks,
stove iron has support ch0ps, barbecues. Cooks, bakes,
bise- 6”" for semng warms—burns ehareoal, wood
hits off. in concrete.

or coal. Grill revolves to per-

    

PATENT PENDING

mit cooking to windward. Cast

 

of heavy stove iron with steel
pipe support, for lifetime serv-

Dated and Undated

0 Blue heavy simulated leather stamped in gold

iee. Shipped fully assembled.

WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE AND PRICES

0 Each holds one year’s issues

0 Opens flat for changes

A M E R I c A N
PLAYGROUND orvrcr (0., ANDERSON, mo. RECREATION MAGAZINE

WORLD'S LARGEST MANUFACTURERS OF FINE PARK. PICNIC. 8 west Eighth Street New York I I

PLAYGROUND, SWL‘JINIING POOL AND DRESSING ROOM EQUIPMENT I
HERE’S A BRAND NEW
-

INDOOR SPORT THAT t
EVERYONE CAN ENJOY!

America’s National Pastime

 

 

  

POWERFUL PATENTED PLUNGER CLEARS

  

Clear messy, stufied toilets
But maintenance costs with

'TOlLllF lEXé

'l'oilet Plunger

Ordinary plungers don’t seat
properly. They permit com-
pressed air and water to splash
back. Thus you not only have
a mess, but you lose the very
pressure you need to clear the
obstruction.

With “TOILAFLEX”, ex-
pressly designed for toilets, no
air or water can escape. The
full pressure plows through the
clogging mass and swishes it
down. Can’t miss!

Brought to life indoors—with all
the thrills and excitement of the big

league. As much fun to watch as it
is to play.

  
 
     
   
     
   
   
   
       
 

Here's real, authentic baseball! Players ehouse up sides
. Visitor and Home teams are established . . . an

 
   
   
 

umpire is selected . . . players determine rotating pitch-
ing and batting order . . . score is kept. Spectators,
and players alike. root. their teams on to victory. Just
like being in the ball park!

     
  

  
 

' “WW WP. dOUble-pressure Get a "roumrx" for your 2°35 ffo.
' ' ' ' ° " ' ' t t ' r.
O Tapered tall gwes amtlght m Positive insurance ognmst s u e or e

0 Designed to flex at any angle $265
0 Centers, can't Skid around Higher in Canada

AVAILABLE AT YOUR HARDWARE SUPPLIER

 
 

For complete information, write:

ANDERSON MANUFACTURING COMPANY
NORWAY, MICHIGAN

    
   

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

MUSICAL SHOWS

For Amateur Stage Performance
TAMS-WITMARK MUSIC LIBRARY, INC.

757 THIRD AVENUE. NEW YORK 17. N. Y.—212-MU 8-2525

 

BROADWAY HITS O EXCITING NEW RELEASES
BRIGADOON BYE BYE BIRDIE o CARNIVAL!
Available with Excellent New Band  
Orchestration by Philip J. Lang
FIORELLO! 0 WILDCAT

   Modern Adaptation of Porter’s  
FINIAN’S RAINBOW .- -

LI’L ABNER
GIRL CRAZY
RED MILL

BELLS ARE RINGING : i j.  '
I .

Toms—Witmark’s Western Musical I ' u" V
CALAMITY JANE _ ‘

  A scene frcm Ll' ABNERJoine-of the  sccesful amaeu musicalsI as priented

by Department of Parks and Recreation. County of Los Angeles, Calif.

. SEND FOR CATALOG AND PERUSAL COPIES!
I ———————————————————————————————————————————————————————————— _.

Clip this coupon, fill in the information required, and mail to:

 

 
  

 

- 7—57 THIRD AVENUE
'* NEW YORK 17. N. Y.

 

E] Please send me your new fully illustrated catalog of the world’s largest selection of Broadway musical shows for
amateur and professional stage performance.

Please send me perusal books and scores and royalty and rental information on the following shows. ........................................... ..

.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... .-

I can keep and read these for two weeks. There is no charge other than the mail charges which I will pay both ways.

Your Name 
Name of Your School or Organization ......................................................................................................................................................................................................... ..
Street and Number .................................................................................. -...  .... ...City and State ........................................................ .: .........  ................  .................. ,,.
Your Telephone Number Before 5 P.M. ............................................ .. After 5 P.M. .................................................  .......................................................... ..
Questions below are to be answered only if you request perusal copies and royalty information. We will quote.

Admission Prices .......................................................................................................... ..Capacity of Auditorium ..................................................................................... ..
Dates and Number of Performances ................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ..
Is an Orchestration Required? ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ __

\
—————_————__—————_—————————————_—_

DECEMBER 1963

RECREATION

 

VOL. LVI NO. 10 PRICE 60c

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

GENERAL

 

Everyone Must Have an Island (Editorial) . . . . . _ Howard Hanson 449

Can man avoid being caught in a cosmic rat trap?

The Bells . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Edgar Allan Poe 450
Familiar Christmas poem

The Flowers of Christmas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 451
Greens, garlands, poinsettias, and mistletoe

Dressing Up for Christmas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . John  Copeland 452
A town turns into a living Christmas card

Observations From the 45th National Recreation Congress . . . . 453
A maturing profession in. a changing world

On Recreation Literacy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 458
What is it and is it desirable?

On tlIeMilitaryFront  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 460
Activities are swinging in the armed forces

How to Compile a Pictorial Report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 463
The runaway success of a municipal pictorial annual

Progress Report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . i 464-

ARS-NRA Relationship Study Committee submits organization proposal

 

PROGRAM

Recreation and Your Church . . . . . . 0eita Bottorff and Amelia Bishop 476
W ell-rounded program creates stronger fellowship

Family Unity . . . and Fitness, Too . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 478

Growing by leaps and bounds

Hospital Music Clinic . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Stacie Virginia Beavers 479
Physicians prescribe instruction for VA patients

ADMINISTRATION

 

Urban-Oriented Outdoor Recreation . . . . . . . . . . . . . Louis Twardzik 470
Do modern needs call for a reversal of history?

Theater in the Garden . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Louise Lamica 474
Community c00peration makes a dream come true

MONTH LY
Editorially Speaking 439

 

Letters 440 Reporter’s
Notebook 441 People in the Recreation News 444 As \Vc
Go To Press 445 Rx for the Ill and Handicapped 480
Market News 484 New Publications 482 Resource Guide 485
Arts and Crafts Corner 487
ANNUALINDEX........... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..488

 

RECREATION is published monthly except July and August by the National Recreation Association.
a service organization supported by voluntary contributions. at 8 West Eighth Street. New York 11.
New York. is on tile in public libraries and is indexed In the Readers' Guide. Subscription $5.00 a
year. Canadian and foreign subscription rate $5.75. Re'entered as second-class matter April 25.
1950. at the Post Office in New York, New York. under Act of March 3. 1879. Acceptance for malling
at special rate of postage provided for in Section 1103. Act of October 3. 1917. authorized May 1.
1924. Microfilms of current issues available from University Microfilms, 313 N. First Street. Ann
Arbor. Michigan.

DUCATIONAL The articles herein printed are Copyright, 1963. by the
RE 5 S _ the expression of the writers and National Recreation Assoclation. .°
5 5 0 Cl AT I 0“ not a statement of policy of the

O F National Recreation Assoclation.
A M ERICA

   
 

Incorporated .
Printed in the U.S.A.

 

438

 

Editor in Chief
JOSEPH PRENDERGAST

Editor
DOROTHY DONALDSON

Assistant Editor
ELVIRA DELANY

Associate Editor for Program
VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

Business Manager
FRANK ROWE

Advertising Manager

ESTA GLUCK
M

On the Cover

Stars for Christmas, star over Beth-
lehem, a whole heaven Of stars to
steer by in the coming yea r—“catch
a falling star and put it in your
pocket”! Cover adapted with per-
mission, from an illustration Of
stained-glass window design ap-

pearing in the excellent book Ways
with Art: 50 Techniques for Teach-

ing Children (sce Page 482).

Next Month

We start 1964 with an emphasis on
“New Paths to Recreation Space.”
Among articles discussing this im-
portant subject are: “Tapping
Fresh Resources” by Robert Craw-
ford, “Citizens On the Alert” by
William L. Foley, “Recreation
Harvest” ( farmland recreation) by
Lester Fox, “Golf Course Loan
Programs” by Harry C. Eckhoff,
“Zoning for Today’s Needs” by
Joseph Curtis, “What Industrial
Forest Lands Can Contribute” by
John F. Shanklin, and others. Fol-
lowing up lhc showing Of the Sc-
bastian de Grazia film 0] Time,
Work and Leisure in the day-in-
depth program at the 45th National
Recreation Congress in Saint Louis
will be digests Of the papers giveli
by two of the panelists.

Photo Credits

Pagc 444, (Cronin) Luckett Stu-
dios; 474, (top) Hugh Morton,
(bottom) Wect Photo. On Page
458, “Cartwheels” won a special
award in a Kodak High School
Photo Contest fOr fifteen-year-Old
.lim Scotchler Of Lafayette, Cali-
fornia. Making the picture re-
quired nearly thrce weeks Of prep-
aration and experimenting, says
Jim. The sourcc Of the light was
a homemade pinhole lamp. The
lamp itself was a white Christmas
tree bulb enclosed in an Old ink
box wrapped in black paper with
only a pinhole punched in it. The
whole affair was swung like a
pendulum over the upward-aimed
camera.

RECREATION

REREATIDN
DIRECTORS-

      
 

' V

With Your -~
WorkshOps

135 Skilled instruc- 
tors in 100 muior
cities, coast to
toast.

JUST ASK US!
ir

WORLD'S
LARGEST
LEATHER

  
 

   

P. 0.: BOX 79l-BA,
FORT WORTH, TEXAS

Write today for Tandy's big

 

a» :=-.  9--.;  -I:-

.3!"-

' mt; ,:y~e”“*"°‘""“Treader PAID
KWIK—Blll’, INC. Box 6834, Dallas 19, Tex.

Professional GOLF NETS

and troining cages with patented
adiustable target with settings a...“
for each club. 4 models plus gijig3;-E-';I}:l,

o 0 'Il l‘u'cfr‘a':
coges. Campact, ltght- mdaar- agggzxge
autdaar. $39.50 up. ‘33"?

FREE catalog. PA R- BUSTER
one-A eost 26th Pl. Tulso, Okla.

DECEMBER, 1963

   
       
       
  
      
    
        

FREE CATALOG

112 Page Craft Catalog ‘

   
   

EDITORIALLY

SPEAKING

 

THE AGE OF LEISURE

I EISURE is a state of being in which

you pause, open yourself up to
life, discover your own individual
time and rhythm and how it blends with
nature. There is great contentment in
that discovery—an unlocking of your
mind and spirit. Leisure is the opcning
up of yourself to life, not to devour it
but to delightoin it. In leisure, it is not
what you do, but how you do it. Every
man will partake of it differently. For
some, it will be the job of watching
their children grow up, the unfolding of
nature in all its infinite mystery and
variation. Others will have moments of
it in play in the company of good
friends. Still others will realize it in
their own creativeness, in doing what
they are free to do. For some, it will be
pure thought, meditation, and contem-
plation. In lcisure men have discovered
truth, beauty and goodness; a few have
attained wisdom.
It is not death that a man should fear,
but never beginning to live.
HMARCUS AL‘RELIUS

To THE Athenian of the Golden Age,

life was organized around leisure,
not work. . . . To attain leisure, to be
free from the need to work, enabled a
man to devote the best of himself to
public service, to scholarship and con-
templation, and to honoring the gods
and celebrating life in music, poetry,
and the arts . . . there is a real value for
us because it opens up the possibility
that society could be built around a
central concept of leisure instead of
work.

THE MACHINE was to be the slave of
the modern world. Instead it has
caught us up in its gears. At best it can
give us free time, but not leisure; that
we must create ourselves. Leisure and
free time live in two different worlds.
The challenge to modern man is to rec-
ognize this absolute difference and find
a way of infusing at least some part of

his free time with the vitality, beauty,
and tranquility of leisure. Work may
make a man stoop-shouldered or rich.
It may even ennoble him. Leisure per-
fects him. In this lies its future. ——
The above material is part of narration

from the TV film Of Time, Work and
Leisure, based on the book by Sabastian
de Grazia, shown in a general session
at the 4+5th National Recreation Con-
gress.

The Final Test

GGIN LEISURE may lie the final test of

our civilization today,” declares
Dr. Byrne Fernelius, chairman of the
department of recreation and associate
professor of recreation and physical ed-
ucation at San Fernando Valley State
College, California. “The nature of our
society may be determined less by our
accelerated work accomplishments,
than by the quality of our leisure.
Leisure provides the means either for
improving the quality of living or for
destroying our civilization, and science
has given us the tools to perform either
task—From session on “Education for
Leisure—Western Style, 45th National
Recreation C ongress.

The Write Way

IN SPEAKING of writing effectively,
Mark Hellinger once gave these rules

to Jim Bishop:

0 Never write about something you do

not understand.

0 Use only short words.

0 All sentences should be terse unless

you have a special reason for using a

long one.

0 Never begin a sentence with a hang-

ing participle.

0 Pause to think of every aspect of the

story before writing the first word.

0 The more spectacular the facts the

more you should undersay and under-

play them. ii:

Leisure can be a real friend if you know how to use it; a formidable enemy

if you abuse it.—THOMAS G. DESMOND, former N. Y. State Senator.

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 439

LETTERS

 

Happy Holiday
Sirs: . .

We spent our summer vacatlon 1n
your beautiful country and we will not
easily forget the really wonderful vaca-
tion we enjoyed there. We found the
people of America very hOSpitable and
friendly. We are both thirty-seven years
old. We would be very happy to hear
from Americans, especially those who
are able to send us some used American
magazines.

Last, but not least, may we express

 

our heartfelt gratitude to the entire Staff
of the National Recreation Association
and the people of America in general.
MR. AND MRS. AHMAD AL-HAMID,
c/o Ahmad Building, Inc., So. Djalan
Bau Massepe 94, Pare-Pare, Sul-Sel,

Indonesia.

Habit of Excellence
Sirs:
The beautifully expressed tribute to

“Arthur Williams, Centleman of Lei-
sure,” in the September issue of REC-

Picturesque Hong Kong has 0 charm all its own

Pick your travel pleasure for 1964!

The World

- Europe

PLUS Tokyo Olympics, New York Fair

This is THE year for you to hove the
travel experience you've been prom-
ising yourself. Here's how:

In June, or in September with the
1964 Galloway Friendship Tour, you
can visit the famous New York World's
Fair—at no extra travel cost. You can
enioy a fabulous tour of Europe. You
can be one of the happy ones on our

experience-of—o-lifetime Round the
World Tour-— including the 1964

—--—-—-----—----—-—
O

GAUOWA Y

1114 South Ave., Plainlleld, N. J. 07062

I

I

I

I

It FRIENDSHIP TOURS
l

Olympic Games at Tokyo, again at
no extra travel costl

It's the finest travel opportunity in
years. It's the best travel borgoin in
years. And, since our Space is strictly
limited, it's time to decide now to
make 1964 YOUR travel year—with
the Galloway Friendship Tours.
Co-sponsored by the editors of
“Camping Magazine." Write now
for full information.

Please send without obligation Color I
Booklet R describing your 1964 tours. I

Name  ........... __ I

Street ________ .. ..    . ..  I

September E] I
Europe E]

lprefer: E] June
E] Round-the-World

When writing to our advertisers please mention Rzmanon‘.

REATION deserves superlative congratu-
lations, just as Art deserves the accolade
with exclamation points. You have fash-
ioned another outstanding issue. You
are making a habit of excellence.
C. OTT ROMNEY, Specialist, Tourism
and Recreation, Area Redevelopment
Administration, U.S. Department of
Commerce, Washington, D.C.
0 See Mr. Romney's editorial, “Rec-

reation as a Power for Peoce,” Recre-
ation, October l963.———Ed.

Not the Case
Sirs:

I was quite surprised to read in your
September issuc that Thomas Lantz was
the assistant editor of the revised edi-
tion of Introduction to Community Rec-
reation, because, as author of the book,
I had not been aware that this was the
case. When it was decided to revise the
book the publisher engaged three or
four individuals, one of them Mr.
Lantz, to submit suggestions as to de-
sirable changes. He returned a copy
of the book to the publisher with a con-
siderable number of marginal notes sug-
gesting places where some revision was
desirable or necessary. Some of the
comments were helpful; many of thcm
were obvious. This was the extent of
his contribution to the revision of the
hook.

I am grateful to Mr. Lantz for his
comments and to the dozens of others
who submitted information, material,
or suggestions that assistcd me in my
task. I do not feel, however, that the
statement in your September issue was
justified.

GEORGE D. BUTLER, Leonie, New

Jersey.

Fitness Leadership Award
Sirs:

During the last tllrce months, the
North Carolina Jaycees, in couperation
with thc Youth Fitness and Recreation
Commissions of North Carolina and
the youth agencies throughout the state.
have conducted a talent hunt. This
search was for thosc persons who,
through their example and their efforts.
have made outstanding contributions to
the physical fitness efforts in thcir com-
munity and North Carolina.

The “champion” was Earl Croves of
Castonia. In his capacity as president
and treasurer of the Croves Thread
Company, he has dcveloped a full-time
recreation program, administered by
full-time professional recreation per-
sonnel. In line with program develop-
ments, he has constructed a modern
multi-purpose gymnasium and recrea-
tion area, a day camp, and lighted ten-
nis courts.

ED WYANT, Assistant Director, N ortlz

Carolina Recreation Commission,

Raleigh.

RECREATION

A REPORTER’S NOTEBOOK

 

In Step Together

THE National Conference on Prob-
lems of Rural Youth, held at Okla-
homa State University in Stillwater
during September, put into national
focus some of the complex problems of
twenty-two million rural youth in a
changing environment. The event
brought together 520 participants from
forty-six states, the Virgin Islands, and
three foreign countries. Sponsored by
the National Committee for Children
and Youth, the organization established
to provide national leadership for follow-
up of the 1960 White House Conference
on Children and Youth, the confer-
ence attracted educators, businessmen,
church leaders, representatives of na-
tional organizations and state commit-
tees for children and youth, city and
county officials, as well as state and fed-
eral personnel.

Winthrop Rockefeller of Morrilton,
Arkansas, conference chairman and
keynote speaker, revealed the highlights
of a special study by Elmo Roper, As-
sociates, on attitudes, aspirations, and
the preparation of rural youth, which
be sponsored for the conference. Heed-
ing the “Voice of Youth,” he pointed
out that “Today’s youngsters are chal-
lenged with an education experience
that far exceeds . . . that of past genera-
tions.”

The conference included such ses-
sions as:

o The Outlook for Low-Income Youth

in Rural Areas.

0 Spanish Speaking Youth: From the
Farm to the City.

0 A Future for Indian Youth in Rural
Areas.

0 The Implementation in Rural Areas
of the President’s Program on Mental
Retardation.

“In Step Together,” expressed the
sentiment of the participants in “A Re-
sume of Workgroup Reports,” presented
by Dr. Russell G. Mawby, associate
director of the Cooperative Extension
Service at Michigan State University.
The resume highlighted the more than

DECEMBER, 1963

250 recommendations from the twenty

workgroups pulled together under ten
major headings as follows: Increased
Awareness of the Problems of Rural
Youth; Mobilizing the Rural Commu-
nity for Action; Strengthening the
Schools; Initiating and Expanding Re-
lated Educational Programs; Improv-
ing Programs in Guidance and Counsel-
ing; Expanding Opportunities for Em-
ployment; Providing Necessary Com-
munity Services; Fostering Moral and
Spiritual Values; Assisting in Adjust-
ment to Urban Living; and Conducting
Appropriate Research.

In a brilliant concluding message,
Dr. Paul A. Miller, president of Uni-
versity of West Virginia, outlined four
fundamental goals for the future of
rural youth. The first is a first-class
system of elementary and secondary
schools; the second, more and better
counseling; third, high schools of a
terminal nature; and fourth, less dog-
matic conceptions of the community
than is commonly the case.

Fifty-nine background papers on re-
lated programs and problems, prepared
for the conference by educators and
other professional personnel, are avail-

able from NCCY, Associations Build-
ing, 1145 19th Street, N.W., Washing-
ton 6, D.C., at the production costs.

Printed reports of the conference will
be available early in 1964-.

 

At home in a strange port. The recrea-
tion department in Jacksonville, Flor-
ida, opens its facilities and programs to
the crews of foreign vessels dropping
anchor. Shore leave becomes a know-
the-USA-better excursion. ( F or more on
armed forces recreation see_Page 460.)

Project Polynesian
JUST forty miles from Waikiki, a

scenic ten-acre Polynesian Cultural
Center has been Opened adjoining the
Church College of Hawaii of Laie, ac-
cording to Playground News, lively
publication of the Honolulu Department
of Parks and Recreation. The new
“Living Polynesia” is the cultural proj-
ect of the Church of Jesus Christ of the
Latter-Day Saints. Six principal Poly-
nesian communities will be re-enacting,
as closely as possible, life as it was
known on their reSpective home islands.
Included in the group are native fam-
ilies from Tahiti, Tonga, Samoa, New
Zealand, Fiji, and Hawaii.

A giant stage will be constructed
close to the cluster of palm-bordered
native dwelling places. Visitors are to
be seated across the lagoon to view
dances, games, and pageantry of the six
different villages. Students from the
Church College will participate in the
shows. A modest admission will be
charged to defray building expenses and
operating costs. All net earnings are to
go into scholarships for graduates of
Polynesian church schools in the South

Pacific.

Driftwood Sculpture

A TOP PRIZE has been awarded to an
American in a major international
art show at the Paris Museum of Mod-
ern Art. For his driftwood sculpture,
Erik Gronberg, art instructor at Uni-
versity of California at Berkeley, was
the only one of some nine hundred ex-
hibitors from throughout the world to
be awarded the coveted Prize of the City
of Paris. Announcement of the award
was made by Andre Malraux, Minister
of Cultural Affairs for France.

The show was the third Biennale de
Paris, to which artists under thirty-five
years of age from fifty-five countries
contributed their work. The United
States was represented by fifteen pieces
of sculpture, by eleven artists presently
or formerly associated with the Univer-
sity of California at Berkeley.

Mr. Gronberg sent three works to the

441

Biennale. He carved them all with a
bandsaw from scraps of driftwood he
found on the eastern sideflats of San
Francisco Bay. The award is for all
three pieces, which he calls “Last Vic-
tory.” “Hardangervidda” and “V0-
lund." An additional honor for the
prize winner is that in the next Biennale

de Paris, in 1965, he will be allowed a

one-man exhibition of his own.

Border Gateway Development

THE FIRST STEP in a joint cooperative
effort between the United States
and Mexico to modernize the gateway
cities along the 1,600-mile border be-
tween the two countries was taken re-
cently with the approval of two plan-
ning grants under the Urban Planning
Assistance Program. The grants will
permit San Diego and Calexico, Cali-
fornia, to undertake studies which will
be coordinated with those developed
through Mexico’s National Frontier
Program. The ultimate objective is to
develOp our mutual border into “the
longest show window in the world.”
Mexico’s program was initiated in
1960 to raise the standard of living in
the border zones and to develop the
physical environment of the “gateway”
cities. Under the cooperative plan, oili-
cials and leaders of cities on both sides
of the border will cooperate and consult
freely on mutual plans, problems, and
actions. Subsequently, Laredo and Ea-
gle Pass, Texas, joined the program.

Underwater School

SOME National Park rangers are tem-

porarily changing their traditional
green uniform for swim trunks, fins, and
snorkel tubes to prepare for the grow-
ing popularity of underwater swimming
among visitors to the national parks and
recreation areas. Underwater swim-
ming, the U.S. Department of the ln-
terior explains, assumes two forms,
both of which are very exciting-—and
extremely hazardous: skin diving, us-
ing faceplates, fins, and snorkel tubes,
and scuba diving, using the same equip-
ment, plus air tanks.

To insure maximum safety for visi-
tors and employes, the National Park
Service is encouraging its irangers to
become thoroughly trained in the theory
and technique of scuba diving. To date,
five rangers and a U.S. park policeman

442

 

The AMP Awards Program for Outstanding Reporting in te Field of Physical

Recreation is cosponsored by the American Machine &‘ Foundry Company and
the National Recreation Association. Seen at the recent award presentation in
the State House in Boston are NRA staff and Board members and NRA sponsors.
From left to right: Joseph Prendergast, NRA executive director; Gregg Bemis,
NRA Board; Elizabeth Shine, NRA New England District executive secretary;
Massachusetts Governor Endicott Peabody; Susan Lee, NRA vice-president; and
Mrs. John Grew and J. Gardner Coolidge, NRA New England sponsors.

 

have completed a three-week scuba div-
ing course at the United States Naval
Diving School in Washington, DC.
Other rangers, who are engaging in
water-usc programs, also are expected
to take the course.

Yule Bowl

The Lawn Bowlers of Southern Cali-
fornia are looking forward to their An-
nual Scnior Citizens Christmas Lawn
Bowling Tournament to be held Decem-
ber 12, at the Arroyo Seco Green in Los
Angeles. lnstead of an entry fee, the
tournament participant must bring a
$1.00-value toy to be given to a local
child ren's home for Christmas.

Dollars and Sense

HOUSING and recreation authorities
are cooperating in Cincinnati,
where the recreation department re-
cently initiated a recreation program in
the Findlater Gardcns Housing Project
in a building made available on a dollar-
a-year basis. The building, constructed
by the Metropolitan Housing Authority,
is located across from a new public
school.

Two activity rooms f54’-l)y-21’ and
42’-by-21’), a kitchen, and restrooms
are located on the street level. A lower
floor contains three smaller meeting
rooms, showers, and restrooms. The
building cost approximately $150,000.

A two-story gymnasium will be con-

structed adjacent to it at some later date.

Plans call for the recreation department

to construct a playground swimming
pool and a tot pool adjacent to the lower
level when capital improvement funds
become available.

None So Blind

THE WORLD or ART is a visual place,
but Morris Bappaport, blind and
eighty-three, found into it.
Through his sensitive lingers, incmories
of images, and his desire to create, he
began sculpting only three years ago
at eighty. He remembcred imprcssions,
such as thc striking Lgyptian woman
he mct in Alexandria with her hair in
bangs who wore much dangling jewel-
ry. He dccided to concentrate on clay
heads. Without sight, he molded thc
clay and felt and fashioncd the chang-
ing forms as he worked and reworked.
He succecded in making powcrful, ex-

entry

pressive, and realistic heads. He c11-
rolled in New York City’s Art Students
League and began attending sculpting
classes at The Lighthouse, the New
York Association for the Blind. Mr.
Rappaport learncd many secrets of art
and nature.

“One day while lying in bed,” he ex-
plains, “I discovered that from my eye-
brows to thc top of my head was four
fingers wide; from my eyebrows to the
tip of my nose four fingers; and from
my nose to my chin was also four fin-
gers.’ Mr. Rappaport, whose lively
manner and brown eyes that still twin-
kle make him appear twenty years
younger, also goes to the Metropolitan

9

RECREATION

 

Museum to study heads. He has been
given special permission to touch the
sculpture.

“I feel and learn from Zorach, Ep-
stein, Lipchitz, and the Roman sculp-
tors,” he says. He doesn’t ascrihe his
'heads to a definite style. “I don’t
_ know,” he says. “What would you call
them? What do you see?”

Mr. Rappaport became blind in 1939.
Before this he was a designer of men’s
clothes. A widower with no children,
he has many hohbies besides sculpting.
Among them is knitting for the Sea-
men’s Church Institute and keeping in
touch with current events by listening
to volunteer readers from The Light-
house. He also hOpes tO begin doing
heads on request.

Don’t Carry to Excess

How many small hoat skippers are
carrying excess weight around? The
Outboard Boating Club of America
says that boatmen are a pretty active
bunch, so it’s douhtful that there are
many modern mariners carrying excess
poundage around the middle, and most
small boat skippers are savvy to the fact
that they should check the weight ca-
pacity of their craft before starting out
on a pleasure voyage. However, OBC
has this reminder for boatmen: The
weight capacity recommended by the
boat’s manufacturer—usually found on
a small plate near the transom—gives
the total weight capacity of the craft.
To determine how much weight in pas-
sengers and gear a boat can handle,
follow this simple procedure:

0 Add up the weight of your outboard
motor (check the manufacturer’s speci-
fications), hattery, fuel (gasoline weighs
six pounds a gallon), and normal oper-
ating gear, such as anchor, oars, radio,
fire extinguisher, and the like.

0 Subtract this total from the manu-
facturer’s recommended weight capac-
ity. -

0 Never exceed the resulting total in
weight of passengers and extra gear.

Jottings on the Cuff

0 A new anti-litter law in Maryland
makes it unlawful for any person to
throw, dump, or deposit junk or other
refuse upon any puhlic pr0perty, in-
cluding beaches, parks, and waters. Vi-

olators are subject to a fine up to $250 9

DECEMBER, 1963

 

or imprisonment for from thirty to nine-
ty days.

I Think of how much candy it would
take to satisfy the “sweet tooth” of an
elephant! Fortunately elephant candy
is banana trees—the stalks, leaves,
stems, hananas, if any, and even the
roots. At the Los Angeles Griiiith Park
Zoo this is grown for the pachyderms
in their own little preserve.

0 San Diego’s new multi-million dollar
sports arena will seat up to 13,500 peo-
ple. It will be planned and designed by
a team of architects, Charles Luckman
Associates of Los Angeles and Richard
George Wheeler and Associates of San

KILE v

Paul Smith, J r., Director of Health,
Physical Education and Athletics,

Shoreline Public Schools
Seattle, Washington

 

AT YOUR FINGERTIPS

A New Approach to Basic
Physical Fitness . . . Each
9%” Protective-Coated Dial
Contains 18 to 36 Different
Illustrated Progressive Skills.

Diego. The architects have engaged
Mexico’s most renowned engineer, Felix
Candela, to work with them on the e11-
gineering of the structure.

0 The Vagabond, the Montreal Parks

Department’s mobile puppet theater,
rolled to thirty-five parks during the
summer season to provide the children
with a fully equipped stage on which to
present shows with the puppets they
made under the guidance of The Vaga-
bond’s staff. Other special leaders also
visited as many more playgrounds to
instruct children in the making and
manipulation of puppets.

 

DIAL-A SKILL No. 1

Animal Walks ——- 36 ways of
walking involving all muscles
of the body.

DIAL-A SKILL No. 2

Balance Beam Skills ——- a se—
quence of bilateral movements
that may be taught on a level.
floor or inexpensive 2x4.

DIAL-A SKILL No. 3

Stick Activities ——- use Of a
short piece of dowel, mop or
broom handle to teach fitness
skills and simple movement.

DIAL—A SKILL No. 4

Dual Chair Activities ——- use of
ordinary furniture to develop

a series of fitness skills using
all parts of the body.

SET OF 4 DIALS BOXED FOR UPRIGH’I‘ STORAGE: $5.00

INDIVIDUAL DIALS IN PROTECTIVE ENVELOPESI

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

1.75

Ill/ram Publishing mam/1y

426 South Sixth Street -

Minneapolis 15, Minnesota

 

PEOPLE
IN THE RECREATION

NEWS

John P. Cronin,

director of recrea-
tion in Providence,
was chosen Rhode
Island’s outstand-
ing physical-fitness
exponent in a state-

 

wide contest spon-
sored by the R. 1. Junior Chamber of
Commerce. He was representing the
Providence J aycees. As a state winner,
Mr. Cronin is eligible for the national
competition. A national panel will select
twelve from among the fifty state win-
ners and will take them to Washington
as guests of the Junior Chamber of
Commerce. Mr. Cronin has been direc-
tor of recreation in Providence since
1947 and has pioneered recreation pro-
grams for potential delinquents that led
to a study of delinquency prevention
now being made in Providence under
a federal grant ( see “Providence Takes
a Hand,” RECREATION, October 1963).

Louis Broz Lunetta has replaced
George Marks as principal recreation
director in charge of the Los Angeles
City Recreation and Parks Department’s
Eastern High Sierra facilities. Mr.
Lunetta will be in charge of Camp High
Sierra, Whitnlore Hot Springs, and
Crowley Lake and will also supervise
the department’s camping section. du-
ties performed by Mr. Marks until his
recent retirement. Mr. Lunetta has been
an employee of the city of Los Angeles
for twenty-five years, fifteen of which
were spent at Echo Park Recreation
Center. He has been active in civic
affairs within the community and is a
member of the board of directors and
:former president of the Tri-Parks Co-
ordinating Council.

Chester E. Hogan is the new execu-
tive officer of the Los Angeles City
Recreation and Parks Department. Mr.
Hogan, t0p man on a civil service list,
established following a competitive ex-

444

 

amination for the post, was formerly
president and general manager of the
Great Western Rose Company in P0-
mona, California. He is a graduate of
Brown University where he majored in
economics and engineering.

Sterling (Skip) Winans has been
presented with the Third Class of the
Most Noble Order of the Crown of
Thailand by Buhmibol Daulyadel, Thai-

land’s king. Mr. Winans, formerly di-
rector of recreation for Santa Barbara,
California, served as recreation c011-

sultant to the national government of
Thailand and to Thailand’s 120 munici-

palities from 1961 to 1963, on loan
from the Asia Foundation. He is now
a private consultant in the field of pub-
lic parks and recreation and was recent-
ly hired by the Metropolitan Recreation
Council of Los Angeles to make a study
and recommendations on the adminis-
tration °of public beaches for both the
city and county of Los Angcles.

Pat Dawson, di-
rector of recreation
in Janesville, Wis-
consin, recently re-
ceived a Local His-
tory Award of Mer-
it from the State
Historical Society
of Wisconsin for a history pageant of
Janesville presented on the city’s play-
grounds. He also encouraged play-
ground youngsters to set up a junior
historian chapter of the State Histori-
cal Society, and 140 boys and girls
joined. To celebrate they took a trip
to a historic “site—the Circus World
Museum at Baraboo, Wisconsin.

Off on an arts-and-crafts mission to
Moscow is Sidney Dubin, craft con-
sultant of the Economy Handicrafts
Company of Little Neck, New York. Mr.
Dubin will conduct an institute on in-
digenous United States crafts at the

University of Moscow. His manual on
ice-cream stick projects has been trans-
lated into Russian for the occasion. He
will also demonstrate the latest in
American craft projects, such as mo-
saics and stained glass work for chil-
dren. This visit is a cultural exchange
set up when Russian craftsmen ex-
hibited samples of their work at the
Brooklyn, New York, Museum.

 

IN MEMORIAM

 

o A. J. THATCHER, Indianapolis’ pep-
pery and dynamic city-county parks
director, died in October at the age of
fifty-eight. He was first appointed to a
city parks post in 1948 when he was
named recreation director, becoming
parks director in 1956. When the parks
operation became a county-wide func-
tion last January, the new Metmpolitan
Park Authority voted to rctain Mr.
Thatcher as parks head. During the past
year be supervised the completion of a
new nine-hole golf course and a million-
(lollar family recreation center.

0 OLAUS J. MURIE, a leading naturalist
and supporter of wilderness preserva-
tion, died recently in Jackson, Wyom-
ing, at the age of 74. Dr. Murie was a
former director and staff eXecutive of
the Wilderness Society and its president
from 1950 to 1957. He was an extensive
writer on the wilderness; his latest book,
Jackson Hole with a Naturalist (Fron-
tier Press), appeared just before his
death. For twenty-five years Dr. Muric
conducted field investigations for thc
U.S. Biological Survey, later the Fish
and Wildlife Service. His brother, Dr.
Adolph Murie, is with the National
Park Service.

0 CARL O. GUSTAFSON of New York
City, a conservation executive, was
killed in a plane crash recently at the
age of forty-two. He was a member of
the Palisades interstate Park Commis-
sion (New York-New Jersey) and a
personal assistant on conservation to
Laurance A. Rockefeller, chairman of

the New York Council of Parks. He was

also vice-president of the American
Conservation Association and a trustee
of the Jackson Hole Preserve. He was
assistant to Laurance Rockefeller when
Mr. Rockefeller was chairman of the

Continued on Page 494

RECREATION

t

AS WE GO TO PRESS

 

) VOTERS in Florida, Ohio, and Penn-

sylvania said a resounding “Yes” to
recreation bond issues in the November
elections:

0 Pennsylvania voters approved a pro-
posal authorizing sale of $70,000,000 in
bonds by 1970 to acquire new regional
and local parks and fishing and hunting
access areas. Of the total provided by
the program, known as “Project 70,”

$40,000,000 will go for regional parks
near urban areas; $20,000,000 for
grants to local governments, and $10,-
000,000 for wildlife areas and fishing
and hunting access.

0 Ohio voters approved a $250,000,000
capital improvements bond issue, in-
cluding $25,000,000 for conservation
and recreation, which will be increased
by about $15,000,000 in federal grants.
0 Florida voters approved a state con-
stitutional amendment authorizing the
sale of revenue bonds to finance long-
range outdoor land acquisition. Re-
ceipts from a new five percent tax on
most outdoor reoreation equipment and
from a special license tax on most plea-
sure boats will go into a special fund set
up by the amendment. When the fund
is sufficiently large to assure repayment,
the state will issue bonds to buy lands
or build recreation buildings. The pro-
gram calls for the purchase of state
parks, fishing spots, public beaches, and
hunting and camping areas.

) WASHINGTON’S GAIN. Charles H. Ode-
gaard, Pacific Northwest district rep-
resentative of the National Recreation
Association since 1958, has just been
named director of the Washington
State Parks Department. He succeeds

Clayton Anderson. Mr. Odegaard fore-
sees the acquisition of waterfront as a
primary consideration in his new job.

) CONTRARY to the dire prophesies of
Rachel Carson’s best-selling Silent
Spring, some pesticides have helped
produce the nation’s healthiest wildlife
crop in many decades, according to an
article, “The Life-Giving Spray,” by
Virginia Kraft, in the November 18 is-
sue of Sports Illustrated. The article
offers these conclusions, based on a
twelve-month survey:

0 Wildlife populations all over the na-
tion are bigger and healthier than ever,
not in spite of pesticides, but in many
cases because of them.

0 A great many pesticides disasters
and portents of disaster, reported in
newspapers and elsewhere, turned out
to be rumors, often grossly exaggerated,
and in one notable case involving only
two dead pheasants.

0 Those wildlife poisonings that did

DECEMBER, 1963

occur were invariably the result of mis-
use or negligence, not the inevitable re-
sult of prescribed application.

0 Pesticide usage is under tight control
-——growing tighter every day———not only
by federal, state, and municipal author-
ities but within the pesticide industry
itself.

The magazine offers statistics and re-
ports from authoritative sources in sup-
port of its findings, and it points out
that chemical pesticides are the single
most effective tool this country has had
to provide it with the world’s most var-
ied and abundant food supply, its rich-
est forests, its finest and healthiest live-
stock.

} A pesticide-study committee has been
named in New Hampshire, in compli-
ance with a law passed by the 1963
Legislature. Governor John King has
appointed Hilbert R. Siegler of Hopkin-
ton, chief of management and research,
New Hampshire Fish and Game Depart-
ment; Dr. James G. Conklin of Dur-
ham, state entomologist and chairman
of the department of entomology at the
University of New Hampshire; and
Terrence P. Frost of Concord, biologist
for the State Water Pollution Commis-
sion. Other members of the committee
-—appointed by the Speaker of the
House and the President of the Senate
respectively—are Representative Fred
L. Green of Rollinsford and Senator
Robert Monahan of Hanover. Purpose
of the committee will be to study and

GEORGE B. Hxarzoc, Ja., succeeds
Conrad Wirth as director of
the National Park Service. Before
joining the NPS in 1946, Mr. Hart-
zog, who is an attorney, was em-
ployed for a short period as adjudi-
cator in the U. S. Bureau of Land
Management. He began his career
with NPS on October 21, 1946, as an

attorney in Chicago. From Novem-
ber 1947 to August 1948, he served

as attorney at the Lake Texoma Rec-
reation Area, Denison, Texas, now

administered by the Army Corps of

Engineers. He was an attorney-ad-
visor in the Washington office of the
National Park Service until April
1951, when he became assistant chief
of concessions management in that
office.

In August 1955, he was transferred
to the position of assistant superin-
tendent of Rocky Mountain National
Park, Colorado, and served in that
capacity until November 1957, when
he was appointed assistant superin-

investigate how to improve pesticide
controls and to prepare a report and
proposed legislation to be considered
by the 1965 Legislature, with money
being appropriated to do the necessary
research. The committee will secure in-
formation from other states on studies
they have conducted and legislation
they have set up. It will also conduct
studies in New Hampshire to weigh the
benefits and dangers involved in the use
of pesticides. The committee hopes to
design “model” legislation to fit the
state’s needs. Any proposals made by
the group should make it possible to use
pesticides to their greatest advantage
and still minimize any possible danger
that might be inherent to their use.

) AN ALLOTMENT of tickets to the 1964
Olympic Games in Tokyo is announced
by American Express. The company,
which is the U. S. ticket agent for the
games, advises the public to make ticket
reservations as soon as possible in view
of the limited supply available. Reser-
vations can be handled at any American
Express office in the United States. Ac-
tual tickets to the event will be distrib-
uted in June.

THINGS YOU SHOULD KNOW

} DEVISING a standard test to determine
the physical fitness of American youth
will be the objective of a three-year
study which is now underway in the

Milton, Massachusetts, High School.
The study of “Physical Working Ca-

tendent of Great Smoky Mountains
National Park, Tennessee. In Feb-
ruary 1959, he was promoted to su-
perintendent of the Jefferson Nation-
al Expansion Memorial in St. Louis.
In August 1962, Mr. Hartzog left the
National Park Service to become ex-
ecutive director of Downtown St.‘
Louis, Inc., an organization of civic
and business leaders devoted to the
renewal and redevelopment of down-
town St. Louis. He rejoined the NPS
in February 1963 as associate direc-
tor.

In 1956, Mr. Hartzog received a
Meritorious Award Certificate from
the William A. Jump Memorial Fo un-
dation for exemplary achievement in
public administration. In 1962, he
was awarded the Department of In-
terior Distinguished Service Award.

A. Clark Stratton succeeds Mr.
Hartzog as NPS associate director.
Mr. Stratton has been NPS assistant
director for design and construction

since 1961. He joined NPS in 1936.

 

pacity of Adolescents” was madc pos-
sible by a grant totaling $33,369 from
the National Institute of Health of the
U. S. Public Health Service and the Of-
fice of the U. S. Surgeon General to Dr.
Howard G. Knuttgen of West Roxbury,
Massachusetts, assistant professor of
education in Boston University’s School
of Education and research associate in
the university’s College of Liberal Arts
and Graduate School. His co-investiga-
tor is Robert Raymond, director of
health and physical education at Milton
High School. The research team also
plans to compare the results of the Mil-
ton study with studies which are being
made elsewhere in the United States and
in foreign countries.

) A NEW Children’s Bureau publica-
tion, The Abused Child, contains princi-
ples and suggested legislative language
for mandatory reporting of abuse of
children. The purpose of such reports
is to protect children from further
abuse. The substantial number of vio-
lent attacks upon infants and young
children by parents and other care-
takers has prompted social workers,
physicians, nurses, judges, lawyers, and
others to join in efforts toward amelio-
ration. Copies may be obtained by
writing directly to the U. S. Govern-
ment Printing Office, Washington, D. C.
204.02, and enclosing 3.10 for each cOpy
desired.

) A BILL amending the Civil Defense
Act and authorizing the expenditures of
$190,600,000 for a fallout shelter de-
velopment program in the fiscal year
1964 was passed by voice vote in the
House of Representatives on September
17. Indicative of the strong support
mustered for the bill was the record vote
of 172 to 67 which defeated a motion to
recommit. The measure now goes to the
Senate for action. Broad purposes of
HR. 8200, as now constituted, are:

1. It requires incorporation of pub-
lic fallout shelters in new and existing
federal structures, both civil and mili-
tary—with certain exception.

2. It enables the federal government
to provide financial assistance within
specific limits to nonprofit institutions
as an incentive to incorporate public
fallout shelters in their structures. Ex-
amples are: state and local government
buildings, schools, hospitals, orphan-
ages and so on.

3. It permits use by the states of
equipment, materials, or facilities from
the federal government in cases of civil
nuclear disaster, flood, drought, storm,
hurricane, earthquake or fire of cata-
strophic proportions.

Appropriations authorized by the
House are $15,600,000 for shelters in
federal buildings, and $175,000,000 for
the incentive program under which the

446

federal civil defense agency will make
payments on the basis of approved ap-
plication “to states, their political sub-
divisions, or to instrumentalities of
either, to nonprofit institutions which
create shelter space by construction or
modification in their facilities.”

To encourage economy and efficiency
in this part of the program the bill au-
thorizes the expenditure of funds “not
to exceed $10,000,000” for local survey
and planning services to identify the
lowest cost Opportunities to meet local
shelter deficiencies. Payments to states
and nonprofit institutions are not to ex-
ceed $2.50 multiplied by the total square
feet of shelter space created in any ap-
proved application, and a single appli-
cation could cover more than one build-
ing. The “nonprofit” status of any in-
stitution applying for shelter funds will
be determined in accordance with the
US. Internal Revenue Code.

) PURCHASERS of hunting licenses in
the United States in 1962 totalled 13,-
996,353, according to Department of
Interior reports, basing figures on re-
ceipt of information from state fish and
game departments. The licenses cost
nearly $64,000,000. Figures on the
number of paid license holders are used
as a basis for distributing federal-aid
funds for wildlife restoration projects.

) FREE, in exchange for a self-ad-
dressed, stamped enve10pe: Reprints of
the article, “The Unacceptables,” by
Ernest Goranson, which appeared in
the January 1962 issue of RECREATION,
are again available. First come, first
served.

) ONE OF THE FIRST colleges to combine
culture and athletics in a new campus
is Monticello Junior College, Alton,
Illinois, which opened its “Theatron,”
a $2,000,000 cultural and physical-edu-
cation center on campus in October,
with a full program of cultural events
for students and the community. Fac-
ulty, administrators, and donors worked
together on plans to integrate the needs
of the 325 students with those of the
community of about eighty thousand.
The Roman term Theatron refers to a
building combining facilities for games
and the arts. The building includes two
gyrnnasiums, a pool, a thousand-seat
theater and an art gallery large enough

for permanent displays and traveling
exhibits.

) A THOUSAND-SEAT THEATER is to be
added to a $150,000,000 apartment
community, Lefrak City, now rising in
Forest Hills, New York. Lefrak City
will house twenty-five thousand resi-
dents when completed in 1966. Com-
prised of twenty-four, 18-story apart-
ment buildings, it will also include other
recreation facilities, such as tennis

courts, swimming pools, ice rinks, play-
grounds, sitting areas.

) THE CHILD POPULATION of the United
States under eighteen years of age
reached a record total of 68,750,000 at
the middle of this year, as reported in
the Statistical Bulletin of the Metropoli-
tan Life Insurance Company. This
marks a gain of almost 4,500,000 in the

little more than three years since the
1960 Census.

) FIVE MAJOR ISSUES confront the New
York City metropolitan area if its popu-
lation soars by six million over the next
twenty to twenty-five years as eXperts
predict. These are, according to a sur-
vey of fifty-six hundred civic-minded
residents of the area, conducted by the
Regional Plan Association and pre-
sented at its recently concluded annual
conference, the problem of :

o How to get everyone to his job with-
out traffic jams.

0 Whether to invest in vital central
cities or let them deteriorate and lose
population.

0 What pattern to set for the outer
areas of the region which probably will
house almost all of the added pOpula-
tion.

0 How much parkland to set aside for
the public.

0 How much effort to invest in making
the region livable.

The Regional Plan Association is cur-
rently preparing new goals to replace
those established in 1929 that are, in the
main, fulfilled. A more complete story
of the RPA study will appear in a later
Issue.

) THE All-American Handball Cham-
pionships singles finals, according to
Sportscope (The Athletic Institute) will
be televised on February 29, 1964, on
a national hookup, from the new $3,-
000,000-plus Jewish Community Center
in suburban St. Louis.

) INDUSTRY on the rise in rural areas:
There is a trend on the part of “some
industries of a more traditionally urban
character to decentralize into rural
areas or into small cities,” states a De-
partment of Agriculture report, point-
ing out that not all the shifts in the
nation’s population are running against
rural arcas. There seem to be trends
working toward an eventual urban-rural
equilibrium. It goes on to say, “In ad-
dition, rural areas have furnished the
sites for military installations and re-
search facilities, both of which are be-
coming increasingly prominent features
of the national economy. Some of these
facilities require rural, thinly settled
surroundings because Of dangerous or
secretive aspects of their wor .”

RECREATION

 

   

People enjoy snacks—dry snacks,
cold snacks, llquid snacks. Health-
ful, delicious popcorn, America's
favorite fun food, the most pop-
ular snack of all, produces the
greatest profit of all—stimulates
the demand for llquld refresh-
ments . . . profit mates. The hap-
piest of partners for people who
gather for fun. Of course, you
profit by the additional sales.

Biggest value. lowest prlced Heavy duty 0 blg 12-ounce ket-

papcorn machlne In America tle capaclty 0 light weight 0 .

today. Ideal for areas that sell compact. all polished alumlnum :10" Slant“??? groggs lair
moderate quantities of fresh alloy construction 0 easily car- GE", '3‘ 5:] a gameat.cw'o cor:
popped corn. Same high quality, ried from place to place 0 ylelds d.s enger “lat fla'vo': 1,? sh
long life construction and fine minimum $24.00 per hour sales. ' p d‘ ' ' del '
performance features as built Counter Model only $279.50. 931399; tgopgogn' sf'zec .n'
into all Gold Medal products. Floor Model $379.50.  gold Megal'mgcgine rag";
Pmduces a ma" WM“ “2'00 high In profit producing volume.
per hour sales- Select from 13 Gold Medal

Counter Model only $199.00. _ $395.00
Floor Model $299.00. Proflt Topper Popcorn Machlnes

GO. GO. GOLD MEDAL DEPENDABLE ONE-STOP-SOURGE FOR ALL SUPPLIES

 

I am interested in knowing more about Gold Medal Profit Toppers.
Please send me the following:

I] Complete catalog of equipment and supplies.

[I Kit of success stories. [I Popcorn for Profit Plan.
Information about: I] Sno-Kones El Cotton Candy E] Hot Dogs
El Candy Apples E] Peanut Warmers

 

Your best buy In a deluxe. high
capacity pOpper. Super-speed,
Ill-ounce kettle. yields a mini-
mum of $30.00 per hour sales.
More versatlle. easler to oper-
ate. more durable. all polished
alumlnum alloy constructlon.
finest value. A real Gold Medal
Profit Topper with a filter ex-

NAME.____._—___.___._______._________————

ORGANIZATION

 

l
l
l
l
|
I
I
l
l

 

haust system at no extra cost. '_.., I ADDRESS
Counter Model only $339.50. " ff!
FIOOI’ Model $439.50. I.’ f I '\ CITY ZONE._________

 

l
We cooperate with all of our NSPI assoclates STATE_____...__...________——————————-——————

8c PROFIT on W: SALE

WITH THESE OTHER
WMDRHMAL

/ '"1

.o'“ /"'_

Users Say It's Too Good
To Be True
Exceptional capacity I
shaves ice automatically I
rust-proof construction I
compact I lightweight I fool-
proof operation I insulated
I long life and trouble-free
Operation I $100.00 sales
per hour. Only $225.00.

  
 

5 Ways Better Than Any
Other Floss Machine
Easiest to operate I highest
production per hour I more
sales per lb. of sugar I more
dependable I built better to
last longer. Sales Capacity
$54.00 per hour.
Only $275.00.

BUSINESS
REPLY

MAI L NO POSTAGE STAMP NECESSARY IF MAILED IN UNITED STATES

postage will be paid by

_/ ‘\ f}

‘ GOLD MEDAL

PHDDUCTSCD.

1825-39 Freeman Ave.
Cincinnati 14, Ohio

,..\,.,.\r\, Kaprfz

 

The Favorite of All Time
Dependable. sturdy. rust-
proof construction I wlll
stand years of hard use I
specially insulated alumi-
num lce pan I rubber
mounted 1/3 h.p. G.E. motor
I special stainless steel
blades for long life. $60.00
sales per hour.

Only $149.50.

 

“Circus Capaclty"
Floss Machine
High speed I reliability plus
extra capacity I durably
built for peak sales I fast I
safe I no mess I proven fil-
tering I high volume pro-
ducer I top profit-topper.
$90.00 per hour sales.
Complete with pan,
Only $345.00.

 

FIRST CLASS

PERMIT NO. 1265
Cincinnati, Ohio

 

Y
I
I
l
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

HOT DRINK CUPS I COLD DRINK CUPS I POPCORN
BAGS I POPCORN BOXES—THE GREATEST SUPPLY
OF CERTIFIED, TOP-QUALITY REFRESHMENT NEEDS.
SUPPLIES AND EQUIPMENT AVAILABLE TO YOU AT
GOLD MEDAL—THE ONE-STOP-SOURCE FOR EVERY-
ONE WHO CATERS T0 PEOPLE WHO GATHER FOR FUN.

WORLD’S MOST EXPERIENCED
SUPPLIER TO THE REFRESHMENT INDUSTI

Irv-'7? h/‘Jr.

."I

{3""1‘ ph"_r_.(
I

1825-39 Freeman Ave.
Cincinnati 14. Ohio

 

EDITORIAL

EVERYONE

MUST HAVE

AN ISLAND

Can man avoid being caught in a cosmic rat trap?

HOWARD HANSON

an island two miles off the coast of Maine. Outside

of bottled gas for cooking and refrigeration, it is
primitive. We draw water from the well, chop wood for the
fireplace, and live in splendid isolation during the summer
months. We do have a telephone but it is useful only for
outgoing calls!

Here we can escape from the pressure of modern living,
from the automobile, the telephone, the television, the im-
portuning of faculty and students. Here we can refresh our
souls, reassess our values, and commune with the sea, the
air, the pines, and the stars.

MY WIFE and I some years ago inherited from my uncle

If this is an escape I make no apology, for man must, I
believe, have his escape. Each man must have his own island.
Every man must have his release from the too-pressing ten-
sions which surround him.

This island may not, in fact, be an island. It may he a
room with alhi-fi set in which he may escape through the
power of music. He may visit the caves of the Hebrides
with Mendelssohn. He may commune with nature in Bee-
thoven’s Pastorale Symphony. He may delight in the foun-
tains of Home with Respighi or be the guest of Sihelius in
the mysterious forests of the north.

Or, again, his island may be a small room with a northern
light where the tired businessman, doctor, lawyer, merchant,
chief pits his amateur talents against the challenges of oil,
charcoal, or watercolor. He is almost certain to lose the
battle but it will be a glorious defeat! I know because I am
one of the world’s worst marine painters!

Or yet again he may find his island in another small room
filled with books. Here he can be ministered to by Milton,
Shakespeare, or perhaps by Walt Whitman. Thoreau will
reintroduce him to nature. Whittier will explain to him the

 

DR. HANSON is director of the Eastman School of Music,
Rochester, New Y ork. This material is reprinted with per-
mission from the New York World Telegram and Sun,
October 17, 1963. It is excerpted from a speech given by
Dr. Hanson at the National Conference of Editorial Writers.

DECEMBER, 1963

brotherhood of man, and Bishop Ambrose of Milan will tell
him of the Fatherhood of God.

Even in this mechanistic age, the islands still remain if
man can find them. But if he is to find them he must search
in the arts and the humanities. He will, I believe, not find
them in the sciences.

It should finally be clear that the sciences are amoral.
The findings of science may be used, with equal effective-
ness, to kill or to cure. Science and technology can take
us to Omaha or to the moon, but cannot give purpose to the
trip.

Only man as a Spiritual being can develOp a sense of
values and without this sense of values he may indeed per-
ish from his own intellectual curiosity.

THE IMPLEMENTATION of this philosophy is more difficult
than its enunciation. The entire budget of the Depart-
ment of State of our government for cultural exchange
amounts to a few million dollars. According to Stuart H.
Loory, writing in The Saturday Evening Post, the govern-
ment spends $100,000,000 for one Saturn V moon rocket
“to fly once and then he thrown away as casually as a house-
wife discards a used paper napkin.”

From whence will come this judgment of comparative
values, this sense of direction?

It can come, I believe, only from the search for God, from
the search for beauty as well as truth, from the search for
the meaning and purpose of life. It can come only from a
faith in the sanctity of the human spirit, from a belief in
the importance of man in the grand design.

For without this conviction, man is a small rat caught in
a gigantic cosmic rat trap from which he cannot escape——
even by self-destruction. Such a path leads, I believe, only

to madness.
To set man once again on the path which leads to Heaven

rather than to Hell requires all of the powers of philosophy,
of art, and, above all, of religion. To this task man must, if
he is to survive, dedicate his supreme effort. #

449

The Bells

Hear the sledges with the bells,
Silver bells!
ll hat a world of merriment their melody foretells!
How they tinkle, tinkle, tinkle,
In the icy air of night!
While the stars that oversprinltle
All the heavens seem to twinkle
[With a crystalline delight;
Keeping time, time, time,
In a sort of Runic rhyme,
To the tintinnabulation. that so musically 'u‘ells

From the bells, bells, bells, bells,
Bells, bells, bells—
From the jingling aml the tinkling of the bells.

 

—Enc.m ALLAN POE

 

4‘50 RECREATION

The Flowers of Christmas

CCORDING to ancient legend, on the night that Christ
was born, trees burst into bloom and bore fruit

despite the wintry weather. These days, the trans-
formation in honor of the Holy Holiday is almost as mirac-
ulous as homes throughout the world are trimmed with
greens and garlands and set aglow with tiny twinkling lights
for the celebration of Christmas.

As with the blooming trees, holly, mistletoe, poinsettias,
and scores of othcr flowers and plants are all part of the
glorious history of the Holy Season. The reasons why we
celebrate with flowers have been passed down through the
ages. Many of the customs and traditions have their origins
in ancient pagan rites, yet over the years they have taken
on Christmas implications of deep significance.

Holly a Sign of Spring. Holly was worshipped before
the birth of Christ by peoples who considered its greenness
in the middle of the winter as a promise of the sun’s return
to earth for another year. Later, the early French and Eng-
lish hung sprigs of the bright-berried plant on their doors
to indicate homes in which Christ dwelled. It is also be-
lieved that holly sprang up where the Infant Jesus took His
first baby steps. Ironically, this same plant was supposed
to have made up His crown of thorns—the berries turning
from red to white at the Crucifixion.

Holly has grown in this country for hundreds of years.
Indeed, the Pilgrim fathers noted the plant when they land-
ed in America. These days, holly is frequently used for
wreaths. The red-berried plant, worked into the circular
shape, symbélizes the hope of eternal life.

First Christmas Trees. In the 13th century, folk tales
describe a gigantic tree set in a forest and lit with candles.
Some of the candles were straight, others upside down. At
the peak of the tree rested an Infant with a halo around His
head. The tree was humanity; the candles, people good and
bad; the Child, the Saviour Jesus. Other stories link the
Christmas tree to Germany and Martin Luther who may
have trimmed the first tree with candles to show his family
the splendor of,the night on which Christ was born. Later,
apples, candy, and colored papers were added to the decora-
tions.

Christmas Floral Symbols. The flower that has virtually
become the symbol of the Christmas season is the star-
shaped poinsettia. So popular in this country are these
scarlet-leaved blooms, that the Florists’ Telegraph Delivery
Association reports wiring more poinsettias than any other
holiday floral offering. There are many legends surround-
ing nature’s Christmas-colored wonder. One tale relates how
a poor Mexican girl was heartbroken because she had noth-

DECEMBER, 1963

 

ing of value or beauty to offer the Virgin. In desperation,
she plucked sonle scrawny roadside weeds and placed them
at the feet of the holy statue. They were immediately trans-
formed into scarlet brilliance. The poinsettia plant, brought
to this country from Mexico over 125 years ago by Dr. Joel
Poinsett and named in his honor, is still called by many
“Flor de Noche Buena”—flower of the holy night.

OTHER LOVELY BLOSSOMS have also played an important
role in the Yuletide holiday. The Christmas rose is
supposed to have sprung from the bare ground at an angel’s
bidding. As the years passed, it became the custom to place
these blooms at the entrances of cottages so that no harm
would befall the occupants.

Red and white blossoms are traditionally used to high-
light holiday greetings, the red for joy and laughter, the
white symbolizing spiritual calmness and purity. Using red
carnations and giant white Chrysanthemums to_ interpret
these messages has become a popular custom.

What is the meaning of floral gift-giving at Christmas?
Such gift-giving probably stems from the story of the Three
Wise Men. In some countries this custom is still observed
on January 5, the Twelfth Night, when it is believed that
the Wise Men appeared in the Holy Land.

Lassies who get kissed under the mistletoe have an old
Scandinavian myth to thank for this charming custom. It
was the goddess Frigga who hung mistletoe high and was
the first to stand under the glistening plant offering kisses
to all who passed beneath it.

Balsam and fir branches, trimmed with bells, are other
popular holiday decorations. The greens represent ever-
lasting life. Bells, it is said, tolled ominously for one hour
before midnight on the first Christmas to warn Satan of the
imminent birth of the Saviour. At the stroke of twelve, the
happy pealing began to announce the death of the Devil and
the birth of Christ.

Through these many years, flowers, greens, and plants
have become very much a part of the Christmas celebration.
They help make the insides of homes more vibrant; 011 doors
and gate posts they call out the season’s joys to passing
strangers. They literally change the face of the world in
honor of its Creator, in celebration of its Saviour. #

451

m'w i."—

DRESSING UP
FOR CHRISTMAS

The whole town pitches in every year to transform

Altadena, California, into a giant, living Christmas card

 

JOHN Q. COPELAND

My tea is nearly ready

and the sun has left the sky.
It’s time to take the window

to see Leerie going by;
F or every night at teatime

and before you take your seat,

With lantern and with ladder,

he comes posting up the street . . .

HIS warmly remembered verse of
T Robert Louis Stevenson glows

in reality along the downtown
streets of Altadena, California, during
the Christmas season. Sixty old-fash-
ioned Iampposts line the business dis-
trict of the suburban foothills com-
munity, and schoolboys costumed in
top hats, gayly colored scarves, and
topeoats serve as lamplighters. The an-
nual event is but one of the numerous
spectacles which magically transform
Altadena into a giant, living Christmas
card.

Seeds of this ambitious civic spirit
were first sown seventy~f1ve years ago
when Colonel Fred Woodbury planted
two hundred Himalayan deodars along
the roadway climbing to his ranch. The
exotic trees grew into giant landmarks,
and, some thirty years ago, Altadenans
began decorating the trees with thou-
sands of multicolored Yule lights. Thus
was established the annual tradition of
Christmas Tree Lane, a weeklong night-
time phenomenon of nature and man
which over the years has drawn several
million entranced tourists.

I Down Christmas Tree Lane, proces-
sions of cars coast slowly, with their

452

lights out and motors eut. For the mile’s
silent, awe-inspiring duration of this
unique Christmas pilgrimage, even old-
timers find themselves in the spell of a
holy forest. Yet, behind the scenes of
the event there’s plenty of hard work,
perseverance, and unselfish contribu-
tion of time and money required. Coun-
ty firemen volunteer services in string-
ing the lights from precarious hundred
foot ladders. Boy Scouts join sheriff’s
deputies in directing the heavy trallic.
A nonprofit association composed of
leading businessmen and clubwomen
has tirelessly solicited funds and taken
over the preplanning chores.

F. B. Nightingale, a local electrician
living high up on the foothills of Alta-
dena, decided some years ago that visi-
tors should have a beacon to guide them
to Christmas Tree Lane. So he built an
impressive, twenty-foot illuminated star
above his home. The star, too, became
a landmark, visible on clear nights
from the distant city of Los Angcles.

Then, eight years ago, a group of
mothers were inspired to create still
another Christmas fantasy—-—this one to
appeal primarily to children. They
called their project Story Book Lane
and formed their own association to
devise ideas and pool talent. House-
wives, clerks, professional men, and
older children borrowed a vacant lot
on which to construct the cardboard
and plywood Mother Goose characters,
Hansel and Gretel settings, and other
fairly-tale “productions” which would
come alive under colored spotlights on

fifty lawns and rooftops at nightfall.

“Every year we wonder if anyone
will be willing to do all the work and
put up with the inconvenience of stag-
ing another Story Book Lane,” says
Mrs. Clarence McFarland, an Altadena
postofiice employe who helped found
this particular institution. “Then the
children start getting excited about
Christmas, and asking us when we’re
going to get to work. It’s their enthu-
siasm that keeps alive our Christmas
Spirit and makes it worthwhile!”

And that’s the spirit that hovers over
the entire town. For the local Rotary
Club in coOperation with the communi-
ty newspaper, The Altadenan, now
sponsors an annual home decoration
contest that takes in the whole of Alta-
dena.

ALONG about the time the lamplight-
ers set the lantern wicks aglow
against the “teatime sky,” just off
the main business district, yet another
outdoor event is readied every year by
the Theatre Americana troupe, joined
for the holiday occasion by service
clubs and professional and amateur
talent. This is “Christmas in Our Town
Square,” a musical pageant which tra-
ditionally blends regional lore with the
sacred spirit of Christmas. Professional
Hollywood set designers, musicians,
and actors often work side by side with
PTA memhers, shopkeepers, ministers,
and neighbors from all walks of life to
produce the pageant.

Churches of all denominations, mean-
while, as in small towns across the face
of America, have their own Christmas
season programs and pageantry. One of
the most widely known is the block-
long sidewalk tableau staged by St.
Elizabeth’s Church—-—a display of life-
size scenes from the life of Christ, soft-
ly lighted and in a natural setting,
which bears a resemblance to far-away
Jerusalem.

Altadenans don’t seem to mind the
work, though. Already they have started
writing invitations to friends in all
fifty states, asking them to drop around
this coming Christmas time. There’s
one thing sure about Altadena’s Christ-
mas eard. It won’t fit into any ordinary

envelope! if:

 

Reprinted with permission from Sub-
urbia Today.

RECREATION

 

OBSERVATIONS FROM
THE 45th NATIONAL RECREATION

CONGRESS

Theme: Leisure—The Heart of Living

AINT LOUIS, patron saint, blessed the city that bears his
S name and the gathering assembled in its midst for the
45th National Recreation Congress, September 29 to
October 4, I963. The skies were clear, the weather balmy,
and the sun shone over Missouri’s largest city, the “Gateway
to the West” as it welcomed and entertained the over twenty-
two hundred delegates from all parts of the United States,
Canada, and seven other countries.

1% There were many signs that recreation and parks are
growing up as a profession and as a public service. Con-
gress meetings, generally, reached a more mature level this
year, starting with the opening “day-in-depth” devoted to
a symposium and small group discussions on “Leisure—Its
Meaning and Implications.” Seasoned recreation veterans
and not-so-seasoned neophytes, professionally trained lead-
ers and lay voluntecrs, executives and members of their
boards and commissions, were held enthralled by this
“depth” presentation of a subject of concern and interest
to all. It elicited no gripes, no groans of “Oh, I’ve heard all
this before.” At least six hundred delegates returned after
the luncheon break to participate in the buzz sessions. These
were followed-by a question-and-answer period.

The morning session of the Day-in-Depth Symposium
started the ball rolling with the showing of the film Of Time,
Work and Leisure, based on the book by Sebastian de Grazia,
published by the Twentieth Century Fund, which—though
beautifully done———turned out to be controversial in content.
This was followed by some outstanding papers by distin-
guished panel members: Professor Charles K. Brightbill,
head of the Department of Recreation and Municipal Park
Administration at the University of Illinois and author of
Man and Leisure; Dr. Paul Haun, director of psychiatric
education for the New Jersey Department of Institutions and
Agencies and author of many articles on mental health, lei-
sure, and recreation; Dr. Norman P. Miller, recreation co-
ordinator of the University of California in Los Angeles and
author of The Leisure Age; and Robert Theobald, consult-
ing economist and author of The Rich and the Poor, The

Challenge of Abundance, and Free Men and Free Markets.

Professor Brightbill agreed with Dr. de Grazia that 'we
too often overlook the virtues of solitude and tranquillity,
but he pleaded with us to think of leisure as opportunity.

DECEMBER, 1963

“Technology and affluence have given us the opportunity,
beyond toil, to discover ourselves,” he said, while Mr. Theo-
bald warned, “We will live in an industrial age or we will
not live at all.” In other words, recrcation must adapt to a
changed world—the age of automation. Dr. Haun referred
to recreation in leisure as an elementary need comparable
to that for sleep, food, water, and rest; and Dr. Miller stated
that the problem is one of knowing how to use leisure for
thc benefit of self and fellow man, and of helping others to
know how to use it “for the improvement of human rcla-
tionships and human behavior.”

@ Further signs of maturing were evident all week long
in session discussions, in the reports and announcements in-
dicating that the challenges of the important role recreation
and parks must play on a national level will in all probability
be met by a closer relationship among the organizations in
these fields. No longer, for example, will the American In-
stitute of Park Executives, American Recreation Society, and
National Recreation Association travcl alone. They will be
using their threefold strength, flexibility and experience for
greater service to the field. Made up of both professional
personnel and volunteers, these three leading organizations
are eXploring ways in which they may join forces to better
meet the increasing demands that lie ahead. The Saint Louis
Congress will be especially remcmbered, among other things,
as being the occasion of the significant Progress Report from
the ARS-NRA Relationship Study Committec (see Page
464) , presented to a general session by Dr. Edith Ball,
member of the committee and president of the ARS, and
the joint discussion of future relationships by representa-
tives of thesc three organizations at an open Congress meet-
ing.

Pg Harry S. Truman, 33rd President of the United Statcs,
who was to have addressed the All-Congress Banquet, was
replaced by George B. Hartzog, J r., associate director of the
National Park Service. This turned out to be a rather sig-
nificant replacement. In thc short time which has elapsed
since the termination of the Congress, Mr. Hartzog has been
named as successor to Conrad L. Wirth, who has retired as
N PS director. He reminded the audience of Laurance Rocke-
feller’s words in summing up the findings of the Outdoor
Recrcation Resources Review Commission, when he stated

4.53

 

The action‘packed sessions of the 153th \ational Recreation
Congress belied its theme: Leisure—The Heart of Living.
Here, Joseph Prendergast (left), executive director of the
Vational Recreation Association, greets the opening session
speaker, Governor John M. Dalton of Missouri, with Joseph
Jaeger, president, Missouri Park and Recreation Association.

 

The outstanding program for delegates’
wives was arranged by Mrs. H. Leslie
Crodsky (right), seen hcrc with Mrs.
Hadley lrwin (left) and Mrs. Lee A.

Barton, two members of her committee.

 

The day-in-depth symposium on leisure had the delegates
deep in thought and trenchant discussion. The panel dis-
cussion of the morning was followed by small workshop
groups in the afternoon. Above, jam-packed audience.

454

 

s, 
Eamon” ' II

Mayor Raymond R. Tucker of St. Louis grects Congress del-
egates at the annual banquet. Seated to his right are Mrs.
Edward C. Brungard ( partially obscured), Dr. Edith Ball,
and Mr. Brnngard. Striking floral arrangement of bird-of-
paradise flowers and orchids added an exotic note to event,
thanks to Cloria Holland and local arrangements committee.

Left, Mrs. Edward G. Brnngard, director, St. Louis Depart-
rnent of Parks, Recreation and Forestry, explains the work-
ings of her department. To her left, Thomas ]. Purcell,
commissioner of parks; James E. Heath, commissioner of
recreation, and Edward J. Schrader, commissioner of for-
cstry. On her right, administrative assistant B. M. Beauchant p.

:5.

 

 

Panel members were, left to right, economist Robert Theo-
bald; Dr. Norman Miller, UCLA; Jack Buck, sports direc-
tor, KM 0X Radio; Stewart Case, Colorado State University;
Dr. Paul Haun; Charles Brightbill, University of Illinois.

RECREATION

Boa: lunch in the park. A delightful
break in the serious business of the
Congress found the delegates enjoying
a band concert and lunch in Forest Park.

An on-site park maintenance workshop
in Tilles Park, a St. Louis County fa-
cility, included construction of a com-
plete children’s playground during this
popular session. (Ph oto by Bill Harris.)

The closing session. Front left to right:
Charles Hartsoe, Congress secretary;
Charles Christiansen, incoming Con-
grcss secretary; Wayne Kennedy; Jo-
seph J aeger; Joseph Prendergast; Stew-
art Case; James Heath; Jack Woody,
host for the 1964 Congress in Miami

Beach.

Today and tomorrow. Charles Hartsoe
(left) and Joseph Prendergast (center)
greet Charles Christiansen, as he be-
comes new secretary of the Congress.

All photographs, unless otherwise
noted, by Hadley Irwin, recreation
supervisor, Missouri State Park

Board.
Continued H

DECEMBER, 1963 455

 

that recreation is no longer simply “having fun,” but, rather,
it “I. ".V'PS “the kind of America we have and want to have,
and *he kind of people we are and are likely to become.”

if”: \ bit of hanky-panky! Delegates owe a vote of thanks
to the management of the Chase Park-Plaza Hotel for a
special entertainment treat following Mr. Hartzog’s ban-
quet address. Over five hundred banquet guests watched
with fascination as one of the nightclub entertainers from
the hotel, Australian Martin St. James and his wife, con-
ducted a mystifying mind-reading act with delegates as sub—
jects. Donated by the hotel as a gift to Congress guests,
his surprise program was so good that the audience turned
up in large numbers at the night club after twelve o’clock
that evening for its continuance. Many a delegate was hyp-
notized by, in, or during the performance.

 A box luncheon and a band concert beside a beautiful
lagoon in Forest Park reminded some of the Congress old-
timers of the never-to-be-forgotten “breakfast under the
oaks” in New Orleans. Here, again, was an outdoor delight-
ful interval to be remembered. The sun shone, the ducks
quacked, the delegates munebed roast chicken, and the band

NRA Staff Members Honored

AWARDS were presented to Virginia Musselman and
Williard C. Sutherland, staff members of the Na-
tional Recreation Association, by the American Recrea-
tion Society at its annual luncheon during the 45th Na-
tional Recreation Congress in St. Louis.
In presenting the award to Miss
Mussehnan, director of the NRA
Program Service, Dorothea Lenseh,
new ARS secretary, declared, “The
profession of recreation and affili-
ated service organizations can in-
deed be grateful for the dedication
of [this] exceptional woman. . . .
Hers [has been a] pioneer role in the integration of ac-
tivities so that programs [have been able to] advance
from the mediocre to the distinguished. . . . As a con-
sultant she has stressed flexibility, creativity, and indi-
viduality. Her influence lives in the distinguished pro-
grams developing in the communities of the world.”
Mr. Sutherland, director of NRA’s
Recreation Personnel Service, re-
eeived his ARS award from Madolin
Cannon of the Volunteer Consulting
Service, Bureau of Mental Hospitals,
Pennsylvania State Department of
Welfare. She stated that Mr. Suther-
land “. . . has had an important part
to play in the broad movement of the past twenty years
or more to raise the standard of professional salaries in
recreation. He has helped to gain greater official recog-
nition of the fact that recreation is a profession. . . . He
has been the primary force behind the series of annual

[National Recreation Association] National Institutes in
Recreation Administration.”

 

456

played on. Some activity in the park is always close to the
hearts of recreation and park people. This event was
smoothly handled, as were all of the Saint Louis events. The
local arrangements committee is to be heartily congratulated
and thanked! The smooth operation was ably guided by a
man who seemed to glide on invisible roller skates, Jim
Heath, Saint Louis commissioner of recreation.

Fg The opening General Session enjoyed musical selections
by the Metropolitan Singers, a highly accomplished local
choral group. Governor John M. Dalton of Missouri gave
a short and pithy speech before departing for still another
major event, a banquet honoring St. Louis’ own Stan M usial
who had made his final appearance as an active Cardinal
player that afternoon. “Abundant leisure,” said the gov-
ernor, “is a treacherous term. \V e intend it to portray in our
minds a peak of economic and cultural achievement, but it
does not have a soothing sound to the unemployed citizen,
nor does it fit the youth who has time on his hands because
he is a dropout from school.”

5% The especially arranged program in the beautiful new
Saint Louis Planetarium was another very special event.
Delegates were taken back five billion years through time
and saw the beginning of our solar system, in a “You Are
There” program. Mrs. Brungard, director of the Saint Louis
Department of Parks, Recreation, and Forestry, and gra-
cious hostess to the Congress, was present and greeted the
audience personally, as she did at many of the other events.

@ The three-hour Park Maintenance Workshop held at
Tilles Park, a St. Louis County facility, included construc-
‘tion of a complete children’s playground during the session.
It was presented by the Saint Louis County Department of
Parks and Recreation, and chaired by Wayne C. Kennedy,
commissioner of the county department. The county de-
partment supplied free bus service to the park.

5% At the silver anniversary meeting of the American Rec-
reation Society, the following new officers were elected:
president, Edward H. Thacker, reereation analyst, Depart-
ment of Recreation, Washington, D.C.; president-elect, Stew-
art G. Case, Colorado State University, Fort Collins; first
vice-president, Henry T. Swan, director of recreation, Phoe-
nix, Arizona; second vice-president, Beverly S. Sheffield,
director of recreation, Austin, Texas; sceretary, Dorothea
M. Lenseh, director of recreation, Portland, Oregon; trea-
surer, Ralph C. Wilson, director of recreation and parks,
Arlington, Virginia; assistant treasurer, J. D. Foust, North
Carolina Recreation Commission, Raleigh. A special cita-
tion was awarded to Dr. Edith L. Ball, associate professor
of recreation at New York University, the society’s out-going
president. Fellow Awards were presented to Mr. Case and
J. Earl Schlupp of Denver, Colorado.

’@ Outstanding papers, addresses, and reports of the Con-
gress will again be available in thc post-Congress Selected
Papers from the 45th National Recreation Congress, to be
published by the National Recreation Association, and avail-
able after the first of the year for $3.50.

@ The 46th National Recreation Congress will held in Mi-
ami Beach, Florida, October 4 to 8, 1964. Watch RECREA-

TION for further announcements and information.

RECREATION

 

Ever see a kid with a new toy? ‘
Watch, watch carefully—when your teams this sports equipment creates excitement
get new Brunswick Sports equipment. Same and enthusiasm. Try it—and see.

result. There’s an excitement that makes

playing the game just that much better. The  "flak E)

Brunswick line means the best. Be it 8 P O R T S D
. MacGregor. Red Head, Union Hardware
MaCGfegOY, RCd Head, UDIOD Hardware, 623 s. Wabash Ave..Chicago 5. Illinois

DECEMBER, 1963 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 457

ON RECREATIOF

 

What does this term mean to you? Could it be that rccrea-
tion literacy demands knowledge of recreation’s true values
and its role in the new leisure, an education of tastes, cul-
tivation of one’s talents and skills, a reaching for the stars?

458

What do you know about recreation literacy? What does
it rnean to be recreationally literate? Is it a desirable status
to achieve? Why? Does it refer to the individual or group,
aware of the broad concept of recreation, the irnportant role
it plays in the new leisure and in our civilization? Why is
it important that all intelligent people be recreationally
literate?

We are seeking answers to these questions, would like
to hear from our readers and through discussion help others
achieve understanding and appreciation of recreation in the
world today.

Following are the answers of some of the people whom we
have questioned on the subject. Will you write us, too?

THE EDITORS

REV. \VARREN \V. OST, Director, A Christian Min-
istry in the National Parks, National Council of The
Church of Christ in the U.S.A.:

T m: TRINITY 0F LEISURE—technology, mobility, and pros-
perity, has radically upset patterns of American life.
What few people see is where this upset has changed their
own lives. Nowhere is this lack of awareness more critical
than in the whole field of leisure-recreation. The critical
situation can be best illustrated by saying that the people
who need the leisure, and who make the greatest contribu»
tion to society, literally do not have time for it, and the
people who have all the leisure often don’t know what to do
with it. Leisure, reereation opportUnities, and guidance are
no longer identified with class, education, or training. It
is the concern of every community agency including the
Church to help people make the most creative and restoring
uses of leisure and recreation. How can the Church talk
about eternal life when many people don’t know what to do
with the next weekend?

RT. REV. MSGR. FREDERICK J. STEVENSON, Di-

rector, Youth Department, National Catholic IV cl fare
C o nference :

M AN NEEDS RECREATION not only to restore his spent phys-

ical and psychic energies, not only to seek justifiable
relief and comfortable rest, but also to improve his faculties
of mind and will; to better fulfill his religious, family and
social duties; and to advance spiritually, culturally, and
physically. Our attitude towards recreation, relaxation, or
leisure depends upon our concept of the use of time. Accord-
ing to the Christian concept, time is a value entrusted by

RECREATION

LITERACY

God to the freedom of man. Its use, then, will be reasonable,
and, consequently, healthy and moral. Although recreation
is time of free choice, outside of the activities that we must
perform out of duty, it is not time that may be spent wan-
tonly or irresponsibly.

Through the responsible and efficient use of recreation,
man will experience the joys of knowledge, of art, of music,
of literature, the joys of devotion and dedication to great
human causes, the joys of communication with others in
the dreams and anxieties of the mind, the joys of silently
conversing with himself and the joys of silently conversing

with his God.

DR. WILLIAM C. MENNINGER, The Menninger

Foundation, Topeka, Kansas, and member of the
Board of Trustees, National Recreation Association:

AM AFRAID I think of literacy as the specific ability to read.

To distort it herc in terms of ignorance about the im-
portance of recreation is stretching it a little—but not too
badly. I think recreation is terribly important in the lives
of people, because it is re-creation, if it is used rightly. I
don’t care whether it is making artificial flies or casting or
working on a stamp collection or swatting a baseball or golf-
ball—it can be the change of pace that seems to me so very,
very important in the lives of all of us. It becomes more im-
portant as tensions increase—an opportunity to totally shift
gears, even though we work harder in our recreational ac-
tivities than we do possibly in our business. It isn’t the in-
tensity; in fact, I have always said that if a recreation activ-
ity is going to do any good for a person, he has to take it
seriously and work at it—in contrast to being a dilettante.

G. OTT ROMNEY, Specialist, Tourism and Recrea-

tion, U.S. Department of Commerce:

LITERAL-MINDED individuals, who believe words mean
only what they started out in life to convey, who insist
on strict construction and think that two and two always
makes four, may have difficulty understanding the signifi-
cance and application, the aptness, and suggestive power,
of “recreational illiteracy.” This provocative metaphor de-
picts an untoward condition afllicting too many people in
our society and too prevalent among recreation systems
which should be contributing richly toward eliminating the
blight and, better yet, preventing it.
Recreational literacy rests on an enlightened intepreta-
tion and sensitive understanding of the meaning, scope, pur-
poses, and dividends of recreation. It requires a conviction

DECEMBER, 1963

that recreation is not a fixed list of activities but is deter-
mined by motivation and the form of compensation. Any
participation—physical, mcntal, emotional, including “ap-
preciations”-——which is chosen by the individual at his own
lcisure for the gratification of the doing is recreation. Thus,
recreation extends through all areas of life’s interests. It
reaches for the stars and in no sense is limited by degrees
of artistry or strenuosity or skill.

Recreational literacy demands recognition of appetites,
education of tastes, cultivation of talents, development of
skills. It implies exposure under optimum conditions to a
variety of recreation opportunities, experimentation in each
of the general categories of activities, and the sharpening
of skills and ardent pursuit of interests dictated by genuine
appetite and aptitude.

Education of tastes and acquisition of skills prepare one
to meet congenially ever-increasing free time, find spiritual
nourishment, warm satisfaction in full living, and avoid the
boredom of empty hours and debilitation seeking thrills and
tawdry entertainment as anesthesia for the painful lack of
enjoyable self-expression through constructive recreation.

Leisure and recreation are not synonymous; but most of
leisure is recreation time. As leisure increases and longevity
extends, the recreational illiterates are going to become con-
spicuously aware of their poverty.

And society will be made to realize the tremendous irre-
deemable cost of failure to prepare its citizens to accept their
leisure pleasantly and profitably—of permitting, if not cul-

tivating, the Spread of RECREATION ILLITERACY.

GEORGE MEANY, President, AFL-CIO:

THE AFL-CIO’s first interest is, of course, the wages and
working conditions of its members. It is on this facet
of union activity that most people do—and should—judge
the union’s role in society. However, the union of today is
interested in a better life for everyone, away from, as well
as on the job. The shorter workweek, longer vacations, ear-
lier retirement, the increasing efl'cct of automation—all
make it necessary for all Americans to learn to use free time
as creatively and meaningfully as thcy use hours on the job.

That is why the AFL-CIO Community Service Activities
recently held a confcrence on “The Shorter Work Week and
the Constructive Use of Free Time” in New York City.
Speakers there pointed out that man will continue to have
more and more free time and they discusmd all phases of
lcisure literacy, as well as recreation literacy.

Continued on, Page 4-87

459

ON THE MILITARY FRONT

Activities are swinging in the armed services

Ingenuity and initiative are the bat-
tlecries in today’s military recreation
programs. A “recreation wonderland”
for all armed forces has been opened on
Sandy Hook peninsula, New Jersey; a
vacation resort for Air Force families
has been developed on F lorida’s Gulf
Coast; in Saigon, V iet Nam, service
personnel learn how to “Paint Your
Blues Away”; at Fort Leonanl Wood,
Missouri, Spanish-American servicemen
shouted “Ole” during a mock bulljight.
Here are some of the latest communi-
ques from our military bases and serv-

ice clubs.

Vacation Haven

MILITARY PERSONNEL and their fam-
ilies stationed at Maxwell Air
Force Base, Montgomery, Alabama, are

afforded the unusual opportunity of
spending an economical weekend or va-

the Florida Gulf Coast
through the foresight of the command-
ing officers of Maxwell and Eglin Air
Force Bases.

The sprawling Eglin reservation cov-
ers a vast area on the northwest F lori-
da coast. About five years ago, mem-
bers of the Maxwell Rod and Gun Club
conceived the idea of starting a camp
with one or two trailers on Lake Pip-
pin, connected by a narrow channel
with Choctawhatchee Bay. However,
the cost of maintaining it proved to
be too great for their small membership,
and they suggested that Personnel Serv-
ices develop it for the use of all Max-
well airmen. Special arrangement for
use of the land was made between com-
manding officers of the two bases, and

cation on

460

the area was developed with money
from the central base fund. The camp
is now self-supporting through nomin-
al fees charged for occupancy.

Located eleven miles east of Niceville,
Florida, and 150 miles south of Mont-
gomery, Alabama, the camp is within
three hours’ driving distance of Max-
well. A family arriving after working
hours on Friday for a weekend of fun
will find a group of attractive metal
trailers, decorated in traditional Air
Force blue and set far apart in a grove
of live oak trees, their garlands of
Spanish lnoss stirring in the ocean
breeze.

One side of the sandy peninsula looks
out onto the bay with breakers rolling
up on the beach. The other side affords
a view of the quiet waters of Lake l’ip-
pin, lined with magnolia and cypress
trees and palmettos. White egrets and
little blue herons perch on driftwood
stumps emerging from the water near
the shore.

A lighted outdoor blackboard titled
“Look Who’s Herc” has spaces for
writing in chalk Ihc name of thc occu-
pant of each trailer. This gives new
arrivals a chance to determine if any
of their acquaintances are staying in
the park and to begin making them-
selves at home immediately.

Of the twenty-nine operational trail-
ers, one is used for supplies, twelve ac-
commodate six sleepers, and the re-
mainder have room for four persons
each. They are roomy and well
equipped with dishes and cooking uten-
sils. The trailers have individual hath-

rooms with showers, hot water, clec-.

tricity, electric refrigerators, and heat-
ers. Families furnish their own bedding.
Each trailer has a screened porch and
patio with picnic table and barbecue.

The caretaker is Cedric Smith, re-
tired senior master sergeant and for-
mer assistant band leader at Maxwell.
Since he has only one helper, the cost
of maintenance is considerably reduced
by requiring each family to clean its
quartcrs upon leaving. Brooms, mops
and vacuum cleaners are furnished to
aid in the cleanup chore.

Activities for children are especially
encouraged. The area is lighted at
night and has a children’s playground
with swings, slides, and teeter-totters.
Boats and life jackets are furnished
free and motors are available for rent.
Families may bring their own water
skiing equipmcnt. Fishing is very good,
with speckled trout, redfish, gafftop
catfish, and croakers in the bay. The
lake teelns with mullet. The waters of
the bay are shallow enough to be safe
for swimming and wading. There is
almost always a group of people busily
crabbing from the boat dock. Basket-
ball practice hoops, horseshoes, and a
volleyball court are also provided. An
added advantage of the camp is its
close proximity (twenty-five miles by
land or cleven by water) to the famous
fishing port of Deslon, Florida, where
deep-sea charter boats are available.

Military men with families are en-
couraged primarily to use the trailer
camp as a recreation center, but single
airmen are welcomed in the winter. All
of the trailers are occupied during the
three summer months and on weekends

RECREATION

 

 

for two months in the spring and two
months in the fall just before and after
school vacation. Reservations may be
made two weeks in advance at the Max-
well Personnel Services ofiice and may
be made for not less than two or not
more than fifteen nights.

The reason for maintaining this rec-
reation center is well summed up by a
sign placed where all may read it as
they start the long drive home: “We
hope your rest has been of benefit to
you and to the Air Force.”—MARGARET
JENNISON,Montgomery,Alabama. (Mrs.
Jennison is the wife of an Air Force
major.)

U. S. S. Recreation

THE MAGIC WORD in Saigon, Viet
Nam, is, HEDSUPPACT. Don’t
reach for your Vietnamese-English dic-
tionary because that’s Ofiicialese for
the U. S. Navy’s Headquarters Support
Activity Program which provides social
activities for all U. S. military person-
nel in Viet Nam.

Whether it is exciting USO shows or
novelty contests, sightseeing tours, or
a craft shop, a bowling center, or sport-
ing gear, movie film, or a modern thea-
ter, Special Services makes all these
versatile and varied ‘extras’ available
to the American military community
family in this Far East area.

Rosalie Lenahan, recreation director
of Headquarters Support Activity in
Saigon, reports that military personnel
enjoy a wide range of programs, from
the popular softball round-robin games,
to cook-off contests, special talent

DECEMBER, 1963

Left, getting in some
practice shots on rnini-
ature golf course lo-
cated along the Saigon
River are recreation di-
rector Rosalie Lenahan

and DTI lack Kearns
of Navy Headquarters
Support Activity.

Right, a strike at bowl-
ing alley at March Air
Force Base! The youth
bowling program is in-
cluded in surnrner activ-
ities schedule, which
sets up bantarn, junior,
and senior instruction
leagues for base youth.

shows, and model airplane contests, and
such USO acts as “Paint your Blues
Away,” a high-speed oil-painting dem-
onstration.

Special Services recreation facilities
include a modern, twelve-lane, air-con-
ditioned bowling center with semi-
automatic equipment; a Sports area at
Pershing Field in Tan Son Nhut; and
an ever-expanding craft shop. A youth
center is scheduled to be constructed.

Special programs include tours for
officers and enlisted men from visiting
ships, USO shows and local talent acts,
an annual American Community Day
featuring hot dogs and a teenagers-old-
timers (fathers) softball game, and
other events. Special Services also is-
sues golf clubs, tennis racquets, and
miscellaneous sporting gear on a three-
day loan basis. Miss Lenahan writes
a column, “Recreation in Viet Nam”
for the Times of Viet Nam.

Fun in the Sun

SUMMER VACATION for the youngsters
at March Air Force Base in Cali-
fornia means a wide gamut of activities
from a space-age reading program to
ballet classes and off-base tours. Base
officials have organized a comprehen-
sive recreation program. The March
Youth Center—hub of the program-—
works closely with allied facilities to
put together a program of activities to
please all age groups.

The summer playground program in-
cludes leadership training, games, arts
and crafts, drama and storytelling, and
family nights. Other phases of the sum-

 

mer youth program include tap and
ballet dancing classes. The dancing
program is for those in the three-to-
eighteen age group.

Beginning and intermediate swim-
ming lessons are held at one of the base
pools. Lessons are given to two age
groups, eight to fourteen and fifteen
and up. A high point of the summer
swimming season is the annual March
Invitational Meet at the ofhcers’ pool.
This meet is being sponsored by the
Riverside, California, Swimming As-
sociation and the March Recreation
Services with more than 650 swimmers
from March and the local community
taking part. Other athletic meets in-
clude a junior golf tournament on the
base links, a junior tennis tournament,
and a Ping-pong tournament. Bowling
also fits into the base’s youth program
plans. Bantam, junior, and senior in-
struction leagues are open to both boys
and girls between the ages of seven and
nineteen.

Two programs are offercd in “the
physical-fitness category. These are
junior judo and body building. Both
these programs are conducted at the
base physical conditioning unit, one of
the finest units in the Fifteenth Air
Force and one of the best equipped in
the Strategic Air Command.

The base library sponsors a vacation
reading program. Last year youngsters
registered for the Friendship 7 Club re-
ceived a rocket-shaped bookmark and
an astronaut reading log stamped by
the librarian upon completion of vari-
ous stages of the program, with the in-
dividual reading goal being fifteen

461

books. The chaplain’s office also con-
dm" 1 a r «cation Bible school. Boy and
Girl Scouts. the Civil Air Patrol pro-
gram. and junior and senior high-
school summer classes also keep March
youth busy. Youth Center teen-club ac-
t.ivities also enter into the picture.
There is a Pre-Teen Club for fifth- and
sixth-graders, Twixt-Teen Club for sev-
enth graders, J unior-Teen Club for
eighth and ninth graders, and a Senior-
Teen Club.

In addition to all the on-base activ-
ities, the base youth center, in c00pera-
tion with other base activities, arrange
several off-base tours for the younger
set during July, August, and September.
These have included a tour to the Val-
ley of Enchantment at Running Springs,
California, for boys and girls between
the ages of ten and thirteen; a trip will
be to Balboa Beach, California, for
junior and senior high-school students;
a trip to Disneyland; and an end-of-
surmner barbecue at Corona Del Mar,
California.

Chili Dogs and Mock Bulls
SPICE IT with chili and saffron—any

program with a Spanish flavor at-
tracts attention at Fort Leonard Wood,
Missouri, which has large numbers of
personnel of Spanish-American ances-
try. One of the events arousing a bar-
rage of “Olé’s” was a mock bullfight
staged by the Spanish Club of Soto
Service Club. The following details
were supplied by Recreation Director
Chris Christensen.

A bull ring, constructed of canvas
and metal stakes driven into the ground,
was set up on the front lawn. The port-
able stage risers were moved to the
lawn also and a temporary bandstand
was constructed with wooden corner
posts and a plywood roof. The back
and bottom half of the sides of this
stand were covered with red corro-
buff paper and lined in bright orange.
Strings of multi-colored plastic flags
decorated the band stand, refreshment
table, bull ring, and entrance to the
club. Costumes for the matador, assis-
tant matador, sorteador, queen of the
bull fight, and master of ceremonies
were made by Mrs. Clement Benavente,

wife of Sfc. Benavente, Club NCOIC.

Band members and waiters wore grass

462

sombreros to carry out the decor.
Participation consisted of a Spanish
band, master of ceremonies, two men
wearing a bull costume, one sorteador
(the man who sorts the bulls, chooses
one whose speed and dexterity match
the skill of the particular matador, leads
him to the ring, and releases him when

 

it is time for the fight to begin), a queen
of the bull fight (six years old), and two
matadors (one only five years old).
The club director was responsible for
refreshments, decorations, and the bull
costume which was rented from a cos-

tume house in St. Louis. Before the
fight began, the band drew the crowd’s
attention and created the pr0per atmos-
phere with fine Latin American music.
The program was both entertaining and
educational. Although the fight was a
farce and the “bull” drew many laughs
from the crowd, cach pass of the bull
and matador was authentic and ex-
plained to the crowd by the MC as the
program progressed. Books on bull
fighting were found in the club library
and carefully studied by the master of
ceremonies, matador, sorteador, and the
two men who constituted the bull. Nan-
cy Benavente, age six, reigned as
“Queen of the Bull Fight” and gave
the matador his signal for thc fight to
begin. Her permission was asked for
the final kill and she was presented with
the ears and tail of the beast (all ac-
cording to custom).

Each person attending the hull fight
received a miniature straw sombrero.
Plastic marraccas were given to all pro-
gram participants.

The coming event was publicized on
the electric marque on the club lawn,
listed in the monthly activity schedule,
and further advertised at a showing of
two movies, one on Puerto Rico and
another on bull fighting. The movies
were provided by Central Airlines and
were shown in the week before the mock

bull fight as a publicity gimmick to
arouse interest in the event.

Recreation Wonderland

THE Army is deve10ping a “recrea-
tion wonderland” for all armed
forces personnel on 1,600-acre Sandy
Hook peninsula near Highlands, New
Jersey. This is part of the Fort Han-
cock military reservation, an important
radar and missile installation. In 1961
the U. S. Defense Department leased
460 acres of the peninsula, which lies
between Sandy Hook Bay and the At-
lantic Ocean, to the state of New Jersey
for development as a state park. Spe-
cial Service Division of the First Army
at Governor’s Island, New York, north-
east of the peninsula, reports that the
area will include twenty miles of clean,
white, sandy beaches, beautiful wooded
sites, and have a total of seventy-six
miles of roads and 330 buildings.

Initially there will be overnight ac-
commodations for forty soldiers in
special renovated living quarters. The
facilities are to be enlarged by June 1,
1964 to provide accommodations for
sixty enlisted men, forty-five ollicers,
twenty women officers, twenty enlisted
women, and for families of sixteen offi-
cers and sixteen enlisted men.

Admiral J nniors

T HE U. S. Navy has sports and rcc-

reation facilities for Navy juniors,
too. Examples of Navy interest in
youth rccreation can be found at al-
most any shore station, anywhere in
the world. Commands with dependents
on board have made it easy for the
sons and daughters of N avymen to en-
gage in their favorite recreation pas-
times. A few examplcs:
o The U. S. Naval Base at Yokosuka,
Japan, has organized youth team and
league competition in many popular
sports, and operates a swimming pool
especially for children during summer
months.
0 NAS Patuxcnt River, Maryland, of-
fers sports and recreation facilities for
youngsters that include
league bowling in the station’s shiny
new fourteen-lane bowling establish-
ment with automatic pinsetters.

organized

RECREATION

0 in Hawaii, league basketball compe-
tition is keen among teenagers whose
dads are stationed at Barber’s Point,
Ford Island, and Pearl Harbor. Ha-
waii’s military junior football league
comprised of eight teams draws consid-
erable spectator interest.

Junior activities are varied. They
often include events peculiar to climate
(surfboard riding in Hawaii), custom
(soccer in Naples), and area (judo
instruction in Japan). Juniors parti-
cipate in most of the sports events avail-
able to grownups, and some that are
not. Competition is keen in the eleven-
to fifteen-year-old set.

These stations, and others, offer team
and league competition in p0pular
sporting events 011 a seasonal basis,
giving most Navy juniors something to
do the year around. Support, super-
vision, and encouragement of junior
recreation is provided by such youth-
minded groups as Special Services,

Navy Wives, and Dad’s Clubs.
At NAS Seattle, Washington, inter-

est in swinnning as a sport——and as a
good thing to know—is spreading in
the young set. The Armed Forces Swim
Club at Sand Point has adopted a con-
stitution that “encourages dependents
to learn to swim and dive, learn to swim
better, learn lifesaving and water safety,
and to train for competitive team swim-
ming and diving.” Over the years,
many Navy juniors have gained na-
tionwide attention and titles in sport
events.

Baseball and swimming are pOpular
sports with the younger set. Special
fields, scaled to the brand of baseball
youngsters play, have been laid out at
many stations. Competition is spirited
at Norfolk, Yokosuka, Patuxent River,
and at virtually every station with a
sufficient number of boys. At Pearl
Harbor, the youth baseball program
keeps boys twelve-and-a-half to four-
teen-and-a-half years old busy during
summer months. In Guam, Navy Jun-
ior and Junior Minor League baseball
got underway last March as baseball

fever spread across the Pacific. In the
Philippines, Navy juniors play Pony
League Baseball (ages 13-14), and Colt
League (15-16).

Most shore activities have swimming
facilities for dependents. Youngsters
who don’t know how to swim but wish
to learn can, at many stations, receive
guidance from Special Services instruc-
tors. At Great Lakes, lllinois, for ex-
ample, several dozen youngsters were
enrolled in non-swimmer classes re-
cently.

Many Navy juniors, boys and girls,
are potential champions in many sport-
ing events. Most, though, are average
kids who participate in sports for rea-
sons of health, recreation, and compe-
tition. Or, as any youngster can tell you
——-after stealing second base “almost
like Maury Wills does it,” or making
three baskets in a row from the free
throw line——Sports are fun. ——- DAN
KASPERICK, 101, USN, in All Hands,

The Bureau of Naval Personnel Career
Publication, June 1963. #

HOW TO COMPILE A PICTORIAL REPORT.

THEY SAID IT with pictures. A Pic-

torial Recreation Annual (re-

port), published by the Mount
Vernon, New York, Recreation Com-
mission, created so much interest the
minute it appeared that the supply was
exhausted almost at once. Previously,
little interest had been exhibited in
the department’s mimeographed type
of report. E. Mario Cribari, member of
the Mount Vernon Recreation Advisory
Board, explained how the report was
put together:

Many of the ideas had been suggested
by our mayor, P. Raymond Sirignano.
A great deal of helpful information was
obtained through conversations with
many of the fine recreation leaders of
this country and Canada while in at-
tendance at various national and state
recreation conferences and conventions.
Other useful hints were acquired from
the recreation instructional clinics con-
ducted by Westchester County’s “Mr.
Recreation,” Dr. Sal Prezioso.

The first step was the purchase of a
Polaroid camera with which we photo-
graphed our diversified activities. These

DECEMBER, 1963

were supplemented by news photos ob-
tained from and with the cooperation
of our local newspaper, the Mount V er-
non Daily Argus.

We then set up a folder for each cate-
gory of our recreation program with
the following headings: Personnel, Fi-
nance, Playgrounds—Summer, Play-
grounds—Winter, Tournaments, Co-
Sponsored Activities, Indoor Centers,
Citizens Canteen, Arts, Instruction.

During the year, the pictures were
filed in one of the above categories for
easy reference. We then selected the
best pictures in our file and mounted
them with the proper captions, on letter-
size paper. We included our financial
report, pertinent letters, and various
other matters to be printed. One month
prior to our publication date, the com-
pleted format was forwarded to a local
photo-offset concern for printing. We
believe that some of the reasons for the
report’s great popularity were based on
the following facts:

1. Parents and friends of the persons
who appear in the pictures were inter-
ested and wanted copies.

2. Proof of the amount of spectators
at the various events was shown.

3. The format was interesting, ex-
plained the program concisely, without
a great deal of reading matter—as in

the old mimeographed report.
A NEW PROJECT of this type stimu-
lated a tremendous interest in our
working staff, who readily suggested
ideas for the program and aided in the
arrangement of the pictures. Several
weeks after distribution, suggestions
from others were still being received.
One such was from Dorothy Donaldson,
editor of RECREATION, who suggested
the numbering of pages in subsequent
annuals. Another was for the establish-
ment of a section entitled “Looking
Back at Recreation” and exhibiting old-
time pictures of men who are now celeb-
rities and political figures.
The city of Mount Vernon Recrea-
tion Commission’s Pictorial Recreation

Annual points up the old cliche that
“One picture is worth a thousand

words.” #
463

PROGRESS
REPORT—

of ABS-NRA Relationship Study Committee

As delivered at the 45th National Recreation Congress

The ARS-NRA Relationship Study Committee, estab-
lished at a joint meeting of the Boards of the National Rec-
reation Association and the American Recreation Society
on January 24, 1962 “to explore areas of possible COOpera-
tion between the two organizations,” is made up of three
members named by the Association and three members
named by the Society plus the executive director of each
organization ex oficio. An opinionnaire, sent out by the
committee to the membership of each in order to get the
general views and comments of all persons and agencies in-
terested in or supporting either was reportcd in RECREATION,
January 1963, and in the ARS Journal at approximately the

same time. The results showed that the majority, or sixty-six
percent of the preferences recorded, was in favor of a mer-
ger of the NRA and ARS.

At a joint meeting of the Boards at the 1962 National
Recreation Congress in Philadelphia, it was unanimously
voted to accept and approve the committee’s recommenda-
tion “that a merger of some type be considered by the
Boards of NRA and ARS.”

Most recently, at the 45th National Recreation Congress
in Saint Louis, a further Progress Report of the committee,
dated September 19, 1963, was submitted to the two Boards
and read to the general assembly. This report suggcsts a
structure to serve as a basis of further development, as out-
lined below.

The Organization

HE ORGANIZATION that is visualized includes a lay and
T a professional department with a staff services divi-

sion. General membership will include all individual
members of the lay and professional departments.

1. Individual Membership
A. Provisions for professional members

Under the proposed new organization the professional
sector will assume a strong departmental status with the
right to elect its own leadership from among professional
members of stated department. It shall have the right of
self-determination in all matters except where its actions are
in violation of the corporate charter and adopted bylaws
of the overall organization.

The membership of the professional department would.

be the national, voluntary, professional fellowship body
concerned with the building of a strong professional group
which would embrace all ‘classes and types of recreation
career workers. Its program would be directed to the pro-

464

fession and would be designed to improve the quality of
professional leadership, and thus the quality of recreation
services and opportunities. This department would be sup-
ported, basically, by the dues of its members, supplemented
by other necessary general funds allocated at the discretion
of the Board of Trustees of the broader organization.

The professional department shall have the right to create
an “academy” or other advanced membership category for
those who voluntarily register as professional recreators
upon meeting minimum qualifications established by the
National Registration Board of the professional depart-
ment. The types of membership available to these registered-
professional members shall be active (currently employed),
inactive (not currently employed but validly registered),
and retired (permanently from full employment, but valid-
ly registered).

The professional department may enroll nonregistered
members who are employed f all time in recreation programs
and services or eligible for national registration but not ac-
tually registered. These shall be associate-professional mem-
hers until registered. Temporary unemployment will not
affect membch in this category if thcy have previously
served at least five years in satisfactory full-time service in
recreation and state that recrcation service is their principal
career interest.

The third broad category of membership in the profes-
sional department would be that of sub-professional. This
type of membership will include thosc who are employed full
time in recreation but who are not eligible for registered-
professional or associate-professional memberships duc to
lack of training and/ or experience. Recreation majors in
training would be accepted in this category with all depart-
mental rights except those of voting and holding of office.

Fees for these three catcgories will be developed at a
future date with the expectation that there will be a sliding
scale for the dues.

The professional department might have a board of di~
rectors and officers elected by its members. Its president-
elect, presidcnt, and past-president could serve ex officio,
but with full voting and other rights and responsibilities,
on the proposed board of trustees of the overall organiza-
tion which board will he discussed later. Its president might
also serve, ex officio, but with full rights and responsibilities
on the executive committee of the board of trustees and as
first vice-president of the overall organization.

The professional department would direct its main, but

Continued on Page 469

RECREATION

«S

O I ‘ I“

   

PMENT PENDING

LL THE FUN (AND SKILL) OF TENNIS . . .
IITHOUT A TENNIS COURT. . .

lNDOORS-OUTDOORS

ANIMPURTANT NEW GGHGEPT . . .
II LIGHTWEIGHT, PORTABLE HITTIHG WALL

A high rebound nef surface fhaf obsolefes all bacltboards. Perfecf for hif. cafch and fhrow—"The
Timing is Righf'. For T‘ennisI volleyballl soccerI lacrossel field hockey and baseball . . . gives a nafural

game inferval which provides 'gef ready' fime for nexf ball. To confrol lengfh and speed of ball re-

bound. simply filf frame +o any angle and vary nel' fension. Use in gym—if's silenf; and on any flaf

surface ou’rdoors—if's weafherproof. Lighfweighf. self-sfanding. easily por’rable. always ready for in-
. sfanf use — in small areasI fool Folds flaf againsf wall. 10' high and eifher IO' or 20' long.

it ALL'BOY co- ' INC. 26 Milburn Sfreef. Bronxville. N. Y.

 

- BOY

THE TEACHER

Ball-Boy relieves the teacher of the burden of feeding
to the student . . . permits the teacher to stand right next t
player, the ideal spot for instructian—to give ALL his time
most valuable asset, his skill as an instructor.

The player is supplied with a steady stream of perfect b
is able to extract the maximum benefit from limited instr
or practice time.

Ball-Boy acts as a skilled assistant . . . compensates for po
lack of tennis skill on your staff.

 
  
   
      

 

GROUP INSTRUCTION

The quick, successful hitting experience—so necessary to
interest—proves the value of the Ball-Boy methad . . .
'l.- To get enough precision balls over the net so th
students get a chance to really hit.
2. To free the instructor to concentrate on TEACHING.
Beginners cannot help each other. They lack the hittin
even throwing) skill. Tennis is a discouraging experience -
navice who cannot get a good ball to swing at.
Ball-Boy provides the most practical method of EXPAN
THE INSTRUCTOR'S CAPACITY to teach large groups—sc
camps, iunior programs. Each Ball-Bay can be the equival
one more skilled teacher—placing balls for the student to s

 

NOVICE TO CHAMPION

Ball-Boy, by eliminating variations in ba|| delivery, gr
SIMPLIFIES the learning process. Even beginners make co
with the ball without difficulty. Progress is unbelievably I
when the beginner can concentrate on the basic problem—h
the ball in good form.

Intensive practice of the swing—by actually hitting hundre
precisely delivered balls—gets quick results and creates an i
diate sense of accomplishment.

Skilled players know that endless set-playing and rallyi
not practice and their game is not necessarily impraving.
players drill their weak points with Ball-Boy to perfect
skills, timing, reactions.

COMPLETELY SAFE — EASY TO U

Duplicates every shot in the game

- Sets up high lobs, flat drives, drop sh
- ' volleys, hard hits, soft hits — all co

Hits continuously at 5 sec. intervals.

Used extensively indoors or outdoor

 

U  [D

implifies and Speeds Up the Learning Process

      

uaran’rees Success For Both Player and Teacher

AYS DEPENDABLE ‘7  BALL_BOV co” |Nc.

int occuracy'  I I r 26 Milburn Sireei. Bronxville. N. Y. DEerfield 7-0047
Please send deiails ( ) Ball-Boy ( ) Re-Bound-Net ( ) Ready-Net

rts, backhands, forehands,

I

/

g—II'*

o required.

 outstanding advance in gym equipme

 
 

REAY-NE

by   PATENT PENDING

O- ‘ .' - --

 

.' “

NET POST PROBLEMS
SOLVED AT LAST

QUICK - SIMPLE - SULVES MANY PROBLEMS!

LighTweighTl porTablel selT—sTanding posT uniT obsoleTes all gym sTandards.
ConsisTs of Two Telescoping posTs on a single 30' base. NeTs can always be
lzepT sTrung and ready for use. AdjusTs insTanle Tor volleyball, badminTon
and Tennis. NeTs are always perTechy Tensioned-sTraighT and TighT. Collap-
sible — may be sTored TlaT againsT any wall. JusT piclz up The enTire uniT (wiTh
The neT always sTrung) and place anywhere on Tloor—no bolTing sTandards

To Tloor . . . no Toppling posTsl no sagging neTsl no scraTched Tloors. WeaTher-
prooT — leave iT oquoors. AdjusTable — l0l To 30' long; 3I To 8' high.

Optional equipment extends the unit to 40’ for tennis doubles.

 

BALL-BOY co- , INC. 26 Milburn STreeT. Bronxville. N. Y.

 

m

Continued from Page 464

rot total, efforts to the matters of (1) professional registra-
ion and certification, (2) recreation education curricula
md college accreditation, (3) ethical practices, (4-) profes-
sional research, (5) broadening the professional literature,
(6) inservice training, and (7) recruitment and personnel
practices.

B. Provisions for lay members

Lay individuals would be members of a laymen’s depart-
ment of the overall organization. Individuals in this de-
partment will be classified in various categories. These cate-
gories and the dues for them will be developed at a future
date.

The lay department would (1) reflect and interpret lay
individual and group needs, (2) assist in public education
and build up and maintain citizen support.

The president of the lay department will serve ex officio
on the board of trustees and on the executive committee.

The president will also be the second vice-president of the
overall organization.

II. Group Afliliations
Provision will be made for agencies, commissions, and
groups of various types to affiliate without the rights and

privileges of individual membership. Appropriate classifi-
cations and fees will be developed.

III. Organization Structure

A. Board of Trustees

There should be a board of trustees upon which there will
be a strong professional representation. The total number
and the pr0portion of professionals will be dependent on

such factors as fund-raising potentials, tax exemptions, and
charter status.

Because of these factors, the chairman of the board of ~

trustees shall always be a layman as shall the president of
the organization. Both positions may be held by a single
person. The secretary of the board also shall be a lay
member.

Included on’ the board of trustees ex oflicio will be the
president of the lay department, the president-elect, the pres-
ident, and the past-president of the professional department
and the chairman of the national advisory council whose
functions will be described later.

B. Executive Committee of Board of Trustees

The board of trustees shall appoint an executive com-
mittee to function between board meetings. This commit-
tee shall have a lay majority of one member.

The membership of the executive committee will include
the chairman of the board, two vice-presidents, chairman of
the national advisory council, the secretary of the board,

and such additional members-at-large as the board shall
determine.

C. Ojjlicers

The oflicers of the organization would consist of a presi-
dent, two vice-presidents, a secretary, and a treasurer.
The president of the organization may be chairman of

the board of trustees or he may be another lay person elect-
ed by the board.

DECEMBER, 1963

The president of the professional department would be,
ex officio, the first vice-president of the organization.

The head of the lay department would be, ex oliicio, the
second vice-president of the organization.

The executive director of the organization would be ap-
pointed by the board of trustees and would be the secretary
of the organization.

The treasurer of the organization would be appointed
by the board of trustees.

D. National Advisory Council

There would be a national advisory council to the board
of trustees. It would be made up of (1) district advisory
committee chairmen elected by voting members (lay and
professional) in the several districts, (2) elected chairmen
of national interest sections and groups formally organized
within the structure of the overall organization, (3) appoint-
ed chairmen of national professional and/ or lay committees
organized at the discretion of the board, (4-) elected chair-
men of the professional and lay departments’ boards of
directors.

The chairman of the council would be elected by the
members thereof and would be a member, ex oflicio, but
with full rights and responsibilities, of the board of trustees
and its executive committee.

E. Annual Forum

‘

There would be an annual forum of all general members
of the organization at each National Recreation Congress at
which reports would be made on the previous year’s activ-
ities of the organization and on its future plans. At such
meetings, there would be Opportunities for full discussion
of questions, comments, suggestions, and criticisms.

F. Staff Services Division

The service division of the new organization would pro-
vide secretariat and other services to the organization’s pro-

fessional and lay departments and their members, to service
affiliates and to the general public.

G. Name of the organization

Several names for this organization have been considered,
including the National Recreation Association and Ameri-
can Recreation Society. #

RECREATION PEOPLE today are living and working in“

what is perhaps the most exciting, challenging, and
difficult time of the recreation movement in the last
twenty—five years. It is exciting because of the many
new types of programs being demanded and changes
in our living patterns to include more leisure time.
Challenging and difficult because of the rapid popula-
tion increase, a more informed and intelligent citizenry;
and, of course, recent changes in interpretations of laws
affecting recreation and parks departments.

In view of these things, we must not lose perspective
of the true purpose and meaning of our profession. We
must remember that as recreators we have responsi-
bilities to provide programs and facilities that truly en-
able men to learn, create, compete, enjoy, and develop
fully their inherent capabilitieS.—JUDY HORNBAKER,
President, Louisiana Recreation and Park Association,
in Louisiana Recreation and Park News, October I 963.

 

469

 

We must serve people

where people live. Does this
fact call for a reversal

of history? Do you

agree with Mr. Twardzik?

URBAN-ORIENTED OUTDOOR RECREATION

LOUIS F. TWARDZIK
I INTIL QUITE RECENTLY, municipal

park and recreation leadership
and outdoor recreation were
generally viewed as being non-compat-
ible. Stop and consider recent devel-
opments. The most significant and far-
reaching research efforts made in rec-
reation to date are the accomplishments
of the national Outdoor Recreation Resources Review Com-
mission, a federal commission created in 1958, often re-
ferred to by its initials, ORRRC. Nothing in the history of
recreation has had the impact on the field as have the vari-
ous ORRRC reports and the final recommendations of the
commission to the President and the Congress in January
1962. Within a month after receiving the ORRRC report,
President Kennedy'announced that a Bureau of Outdoor
Recreation would be established in the Department of Inter-
ior. The new bureau came into being in April. During the
same month, the President issued an Executive Order estab-
lishing a Recreation Advisory Council, to be a Cabinet-level
advisory group.

The new Bureau of Outdoor Recreation has vast powers
and responsibilities including preparation of a nationwide
recreation plan, development of technical and financial as-
sistance programs with the states and their subdivisions, co-
ordination of federal outdoor recreation programs, conduct
of recreation resource surveys, research in outdoor recrea-
tion, outdoor recreation education and interpretation and
many miscellaneous projects in outdoor recreation. The far-
reaching effects of the bureau’s responsibilities should be
obvious.

 

What part did municipal park and recreation leadership
play in all of this? First, in the organization structure of
ORRRC, along with the Congressional members were a

MR. TWARDZIK is assistant professor of park and recreation
administration and park management specialist for the Co-
operative Extension Service, Michigan State University.
This material is taken from a talk given at the Great Lakes
District Recreation Conference, 1963.

470

chairman, Laurance Rockefeller, and seven Presidential
commissioners. An advisory council was also established,
composed of fifteen federal-agency liaison members and
twenty-five additional members representing various inter-
ests. The commission staff included approximately thirty-
five professional persons, exclusive of secretarial and clerical
personnel. Out of all of this representation, municipal park
and recreation leadership had only a few spokesmen, where-
as agencies and individuals representing specific natural re-
sources. their use and products, were very well represented.
The park and recreation field was represented by one of the
commissioners appointed by the President, Bernard L. Orell
of Tacoma, Washington, vice-president of the Weyerhauser
Lumber Company and a member of the Board of Trustees
of the National Recreation Association. Serving on the
ORRRC Advisory Council were Joseph Prendcrgast, exec-
utive director of the NRA, and Luther H. Gulick, NRA vice-
president and president of the lnstitnte of Public Adminis-
tration.

In a speech to forestry students at Pennsylvania State Col-
lege, Dr. Edward G. Crafts, director of the new Bureau of
Outdoor Recreation, himself a highly respected forester of
thirty years experience, mentioned that his associate director
is a geographer, one of his assistant directors is a forester,
and the second assistant director is a fish-and-wildlife biolo-
gist. The chief administrative officer is a public accountant.

Out of this non-municipal-orientcd federal commission
and staff and the non-municipal-oriented Bureau of Outdoor
Recreation staff, there have emanated recommendations, and
subsequent need for the nation to face up to the fact that
the opportunities for outdoor recreation are most urgently
needed near or in the metropolitan areas. The following
quotation from the ORRRC report Outdoor Recreation in
America verifies this: “Three-quarters of the people [in this
country] will live in the metropolitan areas by the turn of
the century. They will have the greatest need for outdoor
recreation, and the need will be the most difficult to satisfy
as urban centers have the fewest facilities (per capita) and
the sharpest competition for land use . . . Over a quarter bil-

RECREATION

 

lion acres are public designated outdoor recreation areas.
However, either the location of the land or restrictive man-
: gement policies, or both, greatly reduce the effectiveness
I f the land for recreation use by the bulk of the population
. . . at regional and state levels, most of the land is not where
g-eople are now.” (The significant findings of the ORRRC

eport are given in “Outdoor Recreation in America,” Parts

and II, RECREATION, March and April 1962.)

To give you a better idea of public recreation resources
101: being where the people are, the Bureau of Land Manage-
nent in the Department of Interior administers 500,000,000
acres, but sixty-five percent of them are in Alaska, and
ninety-five percent of the rest are in the eleven Western
' states. Quoting further from the ORRRC report, “Whatever
the demand is for, it is concentrated where people are—in
metropolitan areas . . . this metropolitan population must
get most of its recreation in the metropolitan region, and,
for all practical purposes, the existence of extensive facilities
somewhere else is little compensation for lack of them at
home.” (F or the expanding recreation policies of the Bu rean

of Land Management see “More Recreation on Less Land,”
RECREATION, January 1963.)

HERE THEN, is the outdoor recreation challenge to muni-
cipal park and recreation leadership: the most im-
portant need for outdoor recreation is in your local commu-
nities and who is to provide the leadership in meeting this
need but municipal park and recreation leaders? It is a
most serious possible challenge and is thrown at your feet
in full view of the people you serve. It required people of
various disciplines to show you the importance, the signifi-
cance, of outdoor recreation to the people you serve. Now,
what are you going to do about it?

First, there must be recognition that the recreation pref-
erences of people are highly geared to the use of land and
water. This is basically what the demand for outdoor rec-
reation is all about. There is abundant and irrefutable proof
for this statement in the various ORRRC reports. (F or a
complete Iisting of ORRRC reports, see RECREATION, Octo-
ber 1963.) Then, the problem of providing these land and
water recreation experiences as in-town, rather than out-of-
town, experiences has to be faced, as well as identifying and
planning for these outdoor recreation activities people
prefer.

The ORRRC states that, “The simpler activities are most
popular,” meaning those that do not require much equip-
ment or preparation, such as walking for pleasure, picnick-
ing, bicycling, and swimming. If we combine these prefer-
ences for outdoor recreation activities with the realization
that the greatest need for them is in or close to the people,
and that people are continuing to concentrate in larger ur-
ban areas, we suddenly realize—sometimes to our great
amazement—that outdoor recreation does not automatically
mean recreation far away from home; that it should not be
necessary for pe0ple to wait for weekends or vacations for an
outdoor recreation experience; rather, why should it not be
part of their living environment and just as available as are
playgrounds or schools. If we give primary emphasis to

DECEMBER, 1963

the factors of demand and need, outdoor recreation is more
urban oriented than it is oriented to the large state and fed-

cral recreation areas, because the demand and the need are
in the urban areas.

OUT OF THESE new realizations and appreciations for out-
door recreation there begins to emerge a concept that
is old, very old, and familiar: the old New York Central
Park, the Boston Commons, Chicago’s Cook County Forest
Preserve, Detroit’s Belle Isle, and the various leisurely park-
ways, ornamental gardens, and the river parks of years gone
by. These are some of the outdoor recreation areas needed
to serve people at home. These are, according to the factors
of demand and need, the most important of all outdoor rec-
reation areas because they serve people where the people
live. However, park and recreation professionals have rele-
gated these areas to history. They were not functional
enough. All one could do in these areas was to walk for
pleasure, picnic, swim, bicycle, and enjoy beautiful man-
made or natural landscapes and all as part of the everyday
amenities of life———not just in weekend or vacation packages.

What can we do about this? It seems obvious that we have
to reverse history. One of the most memorable photographs

I have ever seen is the frontispieee of Volume Two of the
publication Parks published in 1928 and edited by L. H.

Weir. It shows what must have been a beautiful, natural
meadow in Brooklyn’s Prospect Park literally covered with
three hundred outdoor tennis courts; yes, three hundred
outdoor tennis courts on one field, and every one in use.
This is what we have to reverse: sacrificing a natural element
for an incompatible activity or use. As a start, sports and
field game areas should be planned in conjunction with
school sites wherever possible to take advantage of the
schools’ location in relation to people, the increasing inter-
est in recreation by educators, and the basic concern of ed-
ucation to “educate for leisure.” We must revitalize the park
concept of preserving the landscape for the refreshment of
mind and body, through design and development of large
urban and regional park areas, for the simpler activities.
Our professional history shows that when recreation
workers cast their eyes around for places to establish the
first public playgrounds they naturally did not want to buy
land, and the existing puhlic parks were the most logical
places for these new-fangled developments. The inevitable
clash of philosophies and personalities between park and

recreation leaders that followed, lingers to this day in some
places.

AS THE PAGE of industrializing our society increased, the
social needs of people became more apparent. In rec-
reation, we entered the group-activity phase and our pro-
grams were designed around groups and activities. The
recommended way to achieve a recreation experience was
thought to be in a group and to stay active. This group
movement in recreation programing found a willing part-
ner in the industrialization process. National economic
growth called for a total disregard for alternative uses of

471

 

. ADMINISTRATION

 

space and land to the exclusive use of production facilities.
The group movement, however, was able to satisfy recreation
demands without competing for these lands and spaces be-
cause a large percentage of the total recreation program

took place indoors. Totlots and playgrounds did not re-
quire much space and thus were not serious competitors for

land. Therefore, recreation programing was able to ad-
vance with the industrialization of the country without

serious conflict.

Large park areas, however, interfered with progress and
could no longer be tolerated. The cost of land and the cost
of utilities to serve the production facilities of a heavily in-
dustrialized nation were too high to permit large park areas
to interfere with industrial growth and expansion. Today,
we have met the challenge of economic growth to a point
where we are enjoying a sufficiently high standard of living
to permit us to think of bringing back the large parks. Again,
we want the outdoor recreation experiences at home, but,
now, the cost of land for large park acreage is higher be-
cause of the even greater competition for its use. Only when
the demand for these outdoor recreation experiences at home
by the people becomes great enough, only then will the pub-
lic be willing to pay the heavy cost of converting expensive,
developed land from an established use to a recreation use.
Will municipal park and recreation leadership be able to
face the challenge of providing the leadership for the neces-
sary and imaginative planning it will take to accomplish
this? We must not only reverse the historical development
by bringing back to our urban areas the large park, the ar-
boretum, the zoo, leisurely parkways, riverside parks, nat-
ural meadows and woodlands, but we must justify our exist-
ence as professional park and recreation leaders by improv-
ing on the past.

The place to start is to get our own house in order, and
the first step in this process is to destroy the image of mu-
nicipal park and recreation leadership being “activity
people” or “maintenance people.” The changes that will
be required to bring back our history and better it for con-
temporary society are not possible under the leadership of
purely activity or maintenance personnel. Unless the art of
park and recreation administration is recognized by the
park and recreation professionals and educators as a proper
avenue for education and experience in this field, then we
better employ people of other disciplines to administer our.
work while we stay busy with activities and maintenance.

There are some bright spots, however, that indicate lead-
ership in our field is moving ahead; specifically, in the cur-
rent movement in the state recreation societies and parks
associations. More and more of our separate and park or-
ganizations are combining into unified state recreation and
park organizations. Of equally great significance are the
current exploratory meetings and work of the National Rec-
reation Association, the American Recreation Society, the
American Institute of Park Executives and the National
Conference on State Parks to study the possibility of com-

472

bining professional and service efforts. This means con-
certed effort within the leadership ranks of parks and rec-
reation to solve our own problems. However, these efforts
are still not emanating from the municipal level up.

To MEET today’s challenge of outdoor recreation, are we
up to the challenge of preparing ourselves for it?

In its most basic form, municipal park and recreation
leadership is being called upon to be concerned for larger
park acreage and the way the acreage is to be used. Pro-
viding for the simpler activities in association with outdoor
recreation and nature appreciation of a woodlot or an ar-
boretum, or a meadow for either walking, bicycling, swim-
ming, observing, or relaxing requires a sensitivity for the
land. In all frankness, this sensitivity is all too often lacking
in our municipal park and recreation organizations.

An obsession for the functional seems to have descended
like a pall over our municipal park and recreation systems.
The functional feasibility of the facility and functional
maintenance seem uppermost in planning, design, and de-
ve10pment. Many departments lack the sensitivity to bring
together a balance of aesthetics and functionalism to our
recreation areas. Look at the present state of many play-
grounds. There is no justification for these areas not being
the beauty spots of any neighborhood; instead, they often
detract from the attractiveness of a neighborhood they were
intended to serve. We have become very adept at ordering
playground equipment and chainlink fencing and can even
quote the cost per cubic yard of concrete, ready mixcd, de-
livered at the site. Our only attempt at satisfying the aes-
thetic factor is with color. Now that equipment comcs
brightly festooned with it, even this is no longer a considera-
tion. The smells, sights, and textures of natural beauty are
of little concern because they won’t “hold up” in oi1r neigh-
borhoods. This hands-up-in-the-air attitude and automatic
turn to the more functional materials should be of deep con-
cern to all of us. The public will be hesitant to vote addi-
tional public funds for additional parklands if we have not
indicated a competency to design, develop, and manage
what we have.

\Ve are no longer recognized as a professional field carry-
ing a sensitivity for the land. Since an administrator gener-
ally knows very little about horticulture or floriculture, is
this any reason why we should not make continuing efforts
to bring back some of the natural beauty to our outdoor
recreation areas? (See “The Descending Spiral of U gliness,”
by August Heckscher, RECREATION, September 1963.) Not
if we are administrators of any note because an administra-
tor would seek the advice of specialists. How many horti-
culturists are on the staff of park and recreation agencies?
Yet twenty-five years ago, a horticulturist was a high-rank-
ing staff member in many park and recreation departments;
he often headed a special section and was often the admin-
istrative head of the entire department.

If we, as individual administrators, do not have this kind

RECREATION,

Outdoor recreation needs are most ur-
gent in urban areas where people live
and this is the sphere of influence of
the municipal park and recreation lead-
er. Here, winter in Chicago’s Jackson
Park attracts fun-seeking youngsters.

of talent on our staff, the obvious answer, if we have a feel-
ing for the land, is to seek it out. State universities teem with
horticulturists, fioriculturists, arboculturists, and even po-
mologists. Many of these are extension specialists who
would be delighted to be of service to park and recreation
departments, probably at no cost. Are we up to proving
that we can develop and manage additional park acreage
for these needed outdoor recreation experiences?

THE SPECIFIC POINTS in the challenge of outdoor recrea-
tion facing the municipal park and recreation leadership
today are:
0 Municipal park and recreation leadership have played
no significant part in bringing to the front the importance
of outdoor recreation—it was done by professionals in re-
lated disciplines.
o The strong’ suit of municipal leadership has been his-
torically identified with programing for the individual,
but again it took the efforts of others to accuratcly and sci-
entifically identify individual needs through research in user
preferences and user satisfactions.
0 Outdoor recreation needs are most important in the urban
area where pe0ple live, and this is the Sphere of influence of
the municipal park and recreation leader.
i To prepare to meet the challenge of outdoor recreation,
this same leadership is being forced to examine its fitness
in educating for' professional training, experience and ob-
jectives.
o A hopelessly split park and recreation profession cannot
meet this challenge. The resulting void will eventually be
filled by a more adaptable group.
0 Outdoor recreation implies the use of land and water. We
must regain our lost sensitivity for the quality of these phy-
sical resources in our planning, development, and admin-
istration at the local levels.

The public has indicated its interest in outdoor recreation
as part of the daily amenities of life. Much of the way we,

DECEMBER, 1963

 

as a people, prefer to live our abundant lives is dependent on
ability of park and recreation leaders to meet the challenge
of outdoor recreation. #

EVALUATION OF OUTDOOR AREAS

THE EVER-GROWING demand for outdoor recreation areas
and facilities has given rise to a reevaluation and change
in policies and consequent new developments and answers
to this complex problem. A number of recent articles in
RECREATION have covered various aspects of the outdoor
recreation picture today. These include:

1. The County’s Role in Recreation, Joseph Prendergast,
December 1962.

2. Flood-Plain Zoning Provides Recreation Areas, June

1962.

3. Highways and Recreation, Sidney Coldstein, January
1961. '

4. Land Ethics, W. C. Yeornans, January 1962.

5. Man’s Need for Open Space, John A. Carver, J r., Sep-
tember 1961.

6. New National Recreation Area System, June 1963.

7. Outdoor Recreation and the Delaware River Basin,

Frank Dressler, June 1962.

8. Our Forest Publics, David Gray, October 1962.

9. Outdoor Recreation in America, George Butler, Part 1,
March 1962; Part 11, April 1962.

10. Race for Open Space, The, C. W. M attison and Robert
J. M. O’Hare, June 1963.

11. Recreation Demands on Public \Vater Supplies,
Charles H. W. Foster, June 1962.

12. Reservoirs for Recreation, Eugene W. Weber, No-
vember 1962.

13. State Park Camping Facilities, March 1963.

14. Supply and Demand, George D. Butler, March 1963.

15. Water for Recrcation, Robert H utchings, June 1962.

16. What People Want for Recreation, Joseph Prender-
gast, January 1963.

473

Striking new amphitlu

LOUISE LAMICA

S ONE DRIVES around the winding
A five-mile scenic length of Green-
field Gardens at Wilmington,

North Carolina, an unusual and colorful
hillside structure suddenly breaks the
seemingly endless beauty of the gar-
dens. The building is atop a sloping,

grassy hillock, accessible by steps lead-
ing up to the niulti-colored structure.

 

 

Peeping over the hillside, behind the

Aerial view of Greenfield Amphitheatre shows land area jnt- building and in full View of the passer-S.
ting out into I35-acre lake, the moat separating stage from

. . b , t r h ,  _-
arena, and part of the five-mile drive around the lakeshore. y are “0 Uge fan“ lar SymbOlS

comedy and tragedy—eternal masks of
the theater, directing their timcless
stares at all who look their way. This is
the entrance to Wilmington’s outdoor
theater, barely one year old, but an am-
pliitheater that is living up to its prom-
isc from a dream that originated nearly
twenty years ago.

Actual construction of the amphi-
theater began early in the spring of
1962. Opening night was held the fol-
lowing June, and it was formally ded-
icated on the night of August 12 by
Paul Grecn, North Carolina playwright
and author of The Lost Colony, pro-
(luccd yearly at Manteo. At that dcdi-
cation, the new amphitheater in its en-
tircty was presented to the city of
,__F -M: - ’. ‘ ' Q“ ‘ Wilmington as a gift by a group of cit-

izcns who had sparcd none of their timc

 

The main entrance of the amphitheater from the road which _ _ _
encircles Greenfield Gardens. The building serves as a and talents 1" “5 Planmng and 0011'
combination concession stand and lighting control tower. struetion.

A visitor climbing the steps leading
into the outdoor tlicater would find be-
hind the entrance a bowl-shaped arena

T H E  E R  containing hundreds of benches terrac-
ing the slope. These benches, capable
of seating eighteen hundred, were

  brought from Manteo, when that fa-
mous theatcr decidcd to renovate its
outdoor auditorium.

At the foot of the hill, across a narrow
moat surrounded by azaleas, dogwood,

MISS LAMICA is feature writer for the
Wilmington, North Carolina, Depart-
ment of Parks and Recreation.

474 RECREATION

 lmington, North Carolina, is a monument to community cooperation

glossy magnolias, and cypresses, is the
stage, actually one of the largest of the
many islands that hug the shoreline of
Greenfield Lake. The island is a “natu-
ral” for such a project. It is large
enough for a huge center concrete stage
and has many tall trees and bushy azal-
eas that provide complete privacy for
waiting performers, stagehands, and
program directors. In recent months,
colorful dressing rooms have been situ-
ated among the foliage of the site and
are barely visible to the audience. The
island is connected to the hillside audi-
torium by rustic foot bridges, over the
moat that contains facilities for creat-
ing a lighted waterfall as a stage curtain.
Visitors to the amphitheater have
marveled at its fairyland setting. In the
spring, a dazzling display of color en-
hances the project, and fall hrings a
panorama of gold and russet hues.

PROGRAMS have ranged from old-
fashioned gospel sings and fiddlers
conventions, each drawing musicians,
performers, and audiences from a four-
state area, to variety shows featuring
local and imported talent, vesper and
Easter sunrise services, drama presenta-
tions, college and school band concerts,
and, the most recent addition, a commu-
nity concert featuring Wilmington’s
fast-growing municipal band.

“The amphitheater is living up to our
highest expectations,” says Arnold Pe-
terson, superintendent of the Wilming-
ton Parks and Recreation Department.
“After many yéars, we feel we have
something to offer the city in a cultural
and recreation line. We also feel the
amphitheater has almost unlimited pos~
sibilities for contributing to the city’s
needs for a variety of recreation out-
lets.”

Behind the glowing success of the
amphitheater’s first year lies a story of
almost unparalleled cooperation by the
city of Wilmington and a group of its

DECEMBER, 1963

citizens who followed through on the
original hope for the amphitheater that
began twenty years before. Land for
the site was purchased fourteen years
ago. However, it was not until 1961 that
Superintendent Peterson and members
of his staff earnestly sought ways and
means of bringing the dream to reality.
A big push in the efforts was hrought
about hy the availability of The Lost
Colony’s seats. With this incentive, a
committee appointed by the parks and
recreation department set to work. The
committee obtained permission from the
city council to proceed with the project,
with the understanding that there would
be no direct cost to the city with the ex-
ception of furnishing skilled and un-
skilled labor for its completion.

The Rotary Club of Wilmington was
then approached with the proposal that
club members sell tickets to an already
planned variety show which would be
staged on opening night. Proceeds from
sales would go toward the theater’s con-
struction costs.

ON THE actual construction, city
workers worked alongside volun-
teers in building up the hillside for the
seats from Manteo. One volunteer trav-
eled to Manteo with trucks and hauled
the unwieldly benches back to the site.
A contractor contributed workers and
material to erect the concession stand
and entrance. When a final tally was
made, thirty-four persons had contrih-

THOUSANDS of American citizens
participate in little theater pro-
ductions, play in community orches-
tras, and get involved in a variety of
art-crafts as release from the tensions
and pressures of modern living. . . .

an indispensable part of a balanced
educational program for an increas-
ingly mechanized civilization.-—-—
CLINTON CONROY, Los Angeles C oun-
ty Superintendent of Schools.

 

uted at least 7,690 work hours to the
project. Other than actual labor, co-
ordination of the work and the plans
for staging the first program required
hundreds of hours by volunteers who
worked out the smallest details. A col-
lege professor worked out the opening
night program, held for three consecu-
tive nights, a program that featured
nearly seventy-five participants.

Then, as gradual order and a sense of
accomplishment began to mount from
the chaos of plans and construction, the
amphitheater committee decided to pro-
ceed boldly with a lighting control-con-
cession stand combination at the top of
the amphitheater. To raise these extra
funds, a souvenir program of twenty-
eight pages was prepared by another
committee, featuring the entire history
of the amphitheater, naming all partici-
pating in its planning and construction
and in the opening night shows. The
souvenir program was paid for through
advertisements solicited from virtually
every business firm in Wilmington, and
its sales were completely successful.

ALTHOUGH the amphitheater is out-

doors, and at the mercy of the ele-
ments, all productions have proved suc-
cessful despite unpredictable weather.
One of the largest attendances at the
amphitheater was a gospel sing attended
by thousands despite intermittent show-
ers throughout the day.

Wilmingtonians now point with pride
to their amphitheater, one of the loveli-
est assets to an area already crowded
with natural attractions. More than any-
thing else, the theater is a monumental
example of what can be achieved when
a city and its citizens cooperate.

The amphitheater is one of thc big-
gest assets the city of Wilmington has to
offer residents and visitors. In the years
to come, it is hoped the amphitheater
may become famous for the productions
developed there. #

475

PROGRAM

RECREATION AND YOUR CHURCH

Well-rounded program creates stronger fellowship

OEITA BOTTORFF and AMELIA BISHOP

ECREATION——Whal can it mean to
R your church program? The First

Baptist Church of Plainview,
Texas, includes in its activities a well-
rounded recreation program featuring
both indoor and outdoor activities. The
total project covers the age span from
beginners to senior adults, but the ma-
jor portion is geared to meet the needs
of intermediates and young people, ages
thirteen through twenty-four.

The church has approximately twenty-
two hundred members, of which about
four hundred belong to the youth
group. Facilities include a three-story
youth building used for both education
and recreation purposes. The building
adjoins the First Baptist Church sanc-
tuary and was formerly the property of
a church of another denomination. It
was erected as a sanctuary and con-
verted to its present usability with the
help of young people who served as vol-
unteer workers. Adopting this as a sum-
mer project, the young people had
“workdays” at the church and joined
with professional help to change the
level of the floor and prepare it as a
gymnasium. A small stage was added
and snackroom facilities set up. Basket-

MISS BOTTORFF is youth director for
the First Baptist Church in, Plairwiew,
Texas, and MISS BISHOP is a volunteer
youth worker.

476

ball equipment was installed and the
floors re-worked to make provisions for
removable volleyball standards, et cet-
era. Recreation facilities which had
been in the basement of the sanctuary
were moved to the youth building. Ad-
ditional facilities include church lodges
at the district campground and the con-
vention-wide assembly grounds, and a
church bus which can be used for ree-
reation transportation.

Financial support for the recreation
program comes from the church budget.
Working with the young people is a
paid youth director, who heads a volun-
teer youth and recreation committee.

The recreation program includes so-
cial recreation, physical, creative, cul-
tural, and outdoor activities:

Social Reercalion—fellowship, ban-
quets, and parties. Fellowships are pre-
dominantly those held after high-school
football games and church evening-
worship services. Sometimes such fel-
lowships are planned and conducted by
the youth director, at other times by
the youth themselves, or perhaps by
adults working with youth in the church
program. Ordinarily, fellowships fea-
ture some type of entertainment (in
which the youth sometimes participate)
and refreshments.

The banquet highlight of the year are
the annual youth banquets held in the

Spring. Starting several years ago as
one banquet, the church now has three
to accommodate its members of young
people. Each year the banquets are
built around a central theme, and youth
committees work on programs and dec-
orations. The affairs are formal and
have proven to be highly popular.
Along similar lines, the church spon-
sors many other “eating meetings” such
as breakfasts, lunches, and suppers, us-
ually held in connection with organiza-
tion meetings or planning sessions.

Parties are primarily channeled
through the educational organizations,
such as Sunday school classes, training
unions, and missionary organizations.
Some of these groups plan regular 50-
eials; others enjoy them on a seasonal
basis. These are planned by the or-
ganizations themselves, sometimes us-
ing ehureh facilities, sometimes home
facilities.

Sports—basketball, volleyball, Ping-
pong, and shulileboard. Basketball in-
cludes both the inter-church games and
participation in a city-wide church
league. Certain organizations, such as
the Boy Scouts, feature basketball as a
part of their weekly meetings. Volley-
ball is an especially popular activity for
department socials including both boys
and girls. Ping-pong tables are standard

equipment in the youth building, and

RECREATION

 

Cay Nineties mcllerdrama [or one of the annual youth banquets held in
the spring. Each year thc banquets are built around a ccntral theme and
the youngsters work on. programs and decorations. These are formal.

are available at all times. Shufiieboard
follows a similar pattern.

Creative—crafts and drama. Crafts
are highlighted during the summer pro-
gram for teenagers. The Vacation Bible
School conducted each June presents
a special opportunity for this type of
recreation. Increasingly popular dur-
ing the past few years have been plaster
molding, mosaics, basket weaving, and
woodwork. Efforts along drama lines
include both the serious and the humor-
ous approach. In the former instance,
the church participates in drama fes-
tivals held in this arca and encourages
the use of drama in departmental open-
ing assemblies. In the latter case, fun
drama (in the form of skits and stunts)

is frequently a part of banquets and
fellowships.

Cultural—literature, music, and trav-
el. Library parties and book displays
are a part of the regular program. In

' 1

addition, the church library staff of
volunteer workers encourages the young
people to “read for fun.” The music
program includes choirs for this age
group with parties and bus trips as
added attractions. Journeys have been
made to home mission fields, to the Se-
attle World’s Fair, et cetera, with the
choir singing in different local churches.
Ensembles also sing for civic organiza-
tions upon request.

Outdoor—camps, retreats, and pic-
nics. , The church participates in the
camping program sponsored by the dis-
trict, including camps for members of
girl’s auxiliary, as well as music camps
and youth camps. Retreats are usually
held by organizational groups for spe-
cific purposes such as planning or study-
ing and include time for fun and fel-
lowship, in addition to the inspirational
and instructive features. Picnics have

proved to be a popular part of the rec-

 

Production of Oklahamlet was also produced for
one of the highly pOpular youth banquets. Eating
meetings also rate high on the church’s calendar.

reation program and take the form of
hayrides, hikes, weiner roasts, baskct
suppers, and similar activities.

These five areas present a brief out’
line of the total recreation program of
the church. Begun several ycars ago,
the program has continued at an accel-
erated pace, indicating that it has prov-
en to be beneficial to the total church
program. Some of the benefits derived
include the enlistment of new members,
the revitalizing of church members not
previously active, the creating of a
stronger church fellowship, and the
building of Christian charactcr in the
areas of cooperation, good sportsman-
ship, and acceptance of responsibility.
This is what recreation means to the
church program. Its cost in terms of
personal effort and financial support is
more than repaid in terms of the spir-
itual values for which the church
cxists. #

 

SKI STICKS

I think that I may never see

A stick as tricky as a ski.

Steer the thng as I will

It always rides me to a spill.

Sits so quietly, till I am on

Then without warning we are gone.
Down we go and full of glee

Gosh, I am sunk—here comes a tree.
I twist and turn to no avail

And pick myself up off the trail.
Only God can make a tree,

But who the heck first made a ski?

-—Tahen from Operation Service Club,
U .S. Department of The Army
( with apologies, we hope, to loycc Kilmer)

DECEMBER, 1963

 

Unparalleled view. .4 mother shows
her twin, sons the ins and outs, ups and
arounds of workout on parallel bars.

 

‘
.m 1%?“ -. _ ,

Real bounce. A teenager who really
knows her bounds and rebounds per-
forms on trampoline as family watches.

No idle culls.- Bedford recreation 

rector Arthur M ed! anus and son Thorn-
as enjoy a turn on the horizontal ladder.

     

In the swing. Mother and six-year-
old daughter had the elimbing ropes
are fun as well as a hne eonditioner.

FAMILY UNITY. ..AND FITNESS TOO

Recreation program provides vigorous workout for all

RECREATION and physical fitness
A program, known as “Family
Day,” is conducted two Sundays
a month at the Bedford [Massachusetts]
High School gym. Only family units
attend on these days. Pufflng pappies
and cautiously active mothers can be
found taking part with their children
on the various exercising apparatus in
the huge hundred-foot square gym.
Daddy and Mommy usually start off
with a big rush of energy and skill, but

478

not too many minutes pass before their
participation is directed toward coach-
ing the never-ending energy of the
youngsters. While the program is de-
signed to some extent to provide a
means of conditioning for the adults,
its main importance is to develop family
unity. Organized by Arthur McManus,
director of the Bedford recreation de-
partment, the program is presently held
only twice a month but is planned to
be expanded, it has become so popular.

No child or parent may come to the
session alone; they must come as a
unit. Other separate fitness classes for
women, men, and children are held at
other times during the week. Horizontal
ladders, climbing ropes, parallel bars,
horses, trampoline, basketball, medi-
cine ball, setting-up exercises, tumbling,
et cetera, make up the activities.—
WILLIAM D. Gonsoe in The Boston
Globe. (Photographs by Bob Dean of
the Globe.)

RECREATION

anxiety and awareness of physical
handicaps; assisting in re-establishment
of self-confidence and social contacts;
.’ lelping prevent further mental and
thysical deterioration; encouraging the
'emotivation of old and the deveIOp-
nent of new interests, skills, and abili-
ies to make life more mcaningful to the
tged; uplifting the morale of institu-
ional personnel because the patients are
physically, mentally, and socially in-
volved at appropriate times of the day;
and participating in community-service
projects, either at the institution or in
the surrounding communities, and, in
' this way, making the aged feel needed
and wanted.”—Frorn Added Years,
newsletter of the New Jersey State Di-
vision on Aging.

+ The Association for the Help of Re-
tarded Children, New York City Chap-
.ter, is currently involved in a federal
project sponsored by the National In-
stitute of Mental Health. The project
is concerned with training of the men-
tally retarded in the social skills of daily
living, such as travel, social dancing,
grooming, and cooking, as well as in
the selective utilization of community

resources, such as restaurants, bowling
alleys, movies, and theaters. The goal
is to decrease dependency upon others
and to raise the retardate’s sclf—esteem.
The steps involved are:

0 To interest group servicc agencies to
Open their full resources to the mentally
retarded on a group and individual
basis.

0 To continue Association for the Help
of Retarded Children services to indi—
viduals and groups.

0 To evaluate what agency program
can best serve the psycho—social and
leisure-time needs of a given retardate
at a given time.

+ Books for tired eyes. The Adult Ed-
ucation Committee of the Massachusetts
Library Association has published Easy
on Your Eyes, a buying list for libraries
of fiction and nonfiction books printed
in larger-than-normal type. The com-
mittee worked in consultation with the
American Library Association, under
the sponsorship of the American Opto-
metric Association. Well over six hun-
dred titles are included, and all books
listed are considered to be of such liter-
ary quality as to merit inclusion in pub-

lic library collections. Copies of the
list, which itself is printed in large
clear type, are being distributed to
about twenty thousand librarians and
optometrists throughout the United
States. Easy on Your Eyes may be pur-
chased from the New England Council
of Optometrists, Inc., 101 Trcmont
Street, Boston 8, Massachusetts, at 35¢
a copy ($1 for three; 8.25 each for ten
or more.)—From Aging, published by
the U.S. Department of Health, Educa-
tion, and Welfare.

+ The oilice of Congressman Targert
H. MacDonald, 1417 Longworth Build-
ing, Washington, D.C., has prepared a
brochure called Sites in Washington,
D.C. with facilities for the Handi-
capped. The brochure is free and lists
places of interest, phone numbers, and
requirements for arranging for visiting
groups of handicappcd persons. Some
of the places of interest are the Arling-
ton National Cemetery, Botanic Gar-
dens, Dumbarton Oaks, Corcoran Gal-
lery of Art, Library of Congress, Mount
Vernon, Naval Observatory, and the
Supreme Court.

 

Conrad Wirth

Retires

CONRAD L. WIRTII has retired as di-
rector of the National Park Service
after twenty-two years of service with
NPS, twelve as director. He is suc-
ceeded by George B. Hartzog, J r., asso-
ciate director since February 1963. Mr.
Wirth joined the NPS after a career in
landscape architecture and three years
of service with the National Capital Park and Planning
Commission, predecessor of the present National Capital
Planning Committee.

Secretary of the Interior Stewart L. Udall called Mr.
Wirth “a dedicated leader who, almost singlehandedly, con-
ceived and won approval of the Mission 66 program which
has done so much to strengthen the National Park System.
. . . Connie Wirth has won a place on the highest honor role
of those who have'done the most to preserve a rich outdoor
legacy for the American people.”

Born at Hartford, Connecticut, in 1899, the son of the
late Theodore Wirth, superintendent of parks at Hartford,
Mr. Wirth received a degree in landscape architecture from
Massachusetts Agricultural College (now the University of
Massachusetts) and embarked on a career as a town and
landscape planner in California and Louisiana. After enter-
ing the NPS, be supervised Civilian Conservation Corps ac-
tivities in various parts of the nation and was also placed in
charge of the NPS land-planning work. From September

 

DECEMBER, 1963

1945 to June 194-6 he was a policy advisor with the United
States Allied Council in Vienna, Austria. In 1946 he re-
ceived the Pugsley Gold Medal “for long and valuable serv-
ice in behalf of the national parks.”

0 See Mr. Wirth's editorial “A Measure of Success", Rec-
reation, November 196] and his article on "New Frontiers

for Mission 66," January l962.—Ed.

 

By Eminent Domain

AS A BOY, there was not an acre of woodland that I
didn’t personally claim for my own, and I stood
ready to defend it against all Indians, outlaws, wild ani-
mals or other interlopers. There is no disputing the
eminent domain of a small boy; he needs no general
warranty deed; his estate is carved out of the universe
in fee simple.

Strangely enough, many years later, I still have the
same feeling—that every acre of open space is mine,
and I am either pleased when the occupant of the land has
taken prideful care in preserving it, or I am righteously
indignant when he has allowed his land to become gullied
and eroded or sacrifices it to unplanned urban expansion.
It is not that I am covetous when 1 claim this personal
ownership. In essence, it is an attitude that I feel that
every American should have. The farm I do not own is
still mine to enjoy visually because it is a part of the

American landscape, and I feel a deep personal loss when
I see a beautiful natural setting lcveled for developmcnt.

——CONRAD Wlarn in RECREATION, November 1961.

 

481

 PUBLICATIONS

 

Ways With Art: 50 Techniques for
Teaching Children, Harold Stevens.
Reinhold Publishing Company, 430
Park Avenue, New York 10022. Pp.
224. $8.50.

This is a well-rounded book with
something for everyone. The untrained
amateur will find in it clearly defined
and illustrated projects which are easy
to follow but still give plenty of scope
for the imagination and creative skills
in painting, drawing, printing, and
three-dimensional design. A veteran
professional artist and teacher writes
us, “This is a fascinating book and it
has brought back to me many things I
have long since forgotten and has given
me ideas for work this year—some of
the techniques I used twenty years ago.
It’s fun to see them again.”

The projects are exciting, and make
one eager to get started. The author has
been a teacher of art for many years
and uses the excellent methods that
have resulted from his rich experience.
Carefully taken photographs of step-by-
step processes with simple but clear cap-
tions supplement his text.

Among special topics and procedures
covered are speed drawing and drawing
without lines; chalk and spray-gun
stenciling, stained glass with transpar-
encies, styrofoam constructions. mosa-
ics, free-standing figures, Heating oil
designs, novel seascapes and land-
scapes, collages, dry-point etching,
home-style lithography, welding with
wax crayons, solder, balsa wood, and
glue——just to mention a few of the many
spirited projects for either the individ-
ual or the group. One of the book’s il-
lustrations served as the basis for REC-
REATION’s front cover.

Ways Wit/i Art is highly recommend-
ed for art teachers, club leaders, home
hobbyists, parents, camp and recreation
directors. Don’t miss it! Purchase it
in time to have it help you with your
Christmas projects and presents.—

D. D.

The Joyful Christmas Craft Book,
Kathryn Holly Seibel. D. Van Nostrand
Company, 120 Alexander Street,

Princeton, New Jersey. Pp. 188, illus-
trated. $5.95.

Readers may remember Mrs. Seibel
as the author of a number of fascinating
articles giving directions for beautiful
decorations made of straw, such as are
imported so often from Sweden. Her

482

articles have appeared in Penn Journal
and have delighted many craftsmen.

Her new book describes a great many
craft projects using familiar materials
(in her artistic bands they are not scrap
crafts or scrap materials), such as
greens, clay, baskets, wood shavings,
straw, foil, rice, and shells, to name
only a few. Each article is described
carefully, and examples of finished
projects are photographed in black and
white, plus several pages of color pho-
tography.

Here are directions for familiar proj-
cots—trees, wreaths, creches, table dec-
orations, hangings, et cetera—but each
with a joyful mark of distinction that
goes with imagination, skill, and an un-
derstanding of the limitations of the
various media. Nothing in this book is
banal. Loving hands combine here with
a creative mind.——-V. M.

Slate Sculpturing, Mickey Klar Marks.
Dial Press, 461 Park Avenue South,
New York 16. Pp. 44, illustrated.
$2.75.

This is an especially interesting book
because it deals with the use of an in-
expensive material, with just a nail and
screwdriver needed for tools. Step-by-
step directions tell how to make the
simplest of designs before going into
those more advanced. The well-known
sculptor Frank Eliscu has done some
fine work simply and the photographs
of it, done by David Rosenfeld. are
clear and expertly done. The book
would be very helpful to leaders of rec-
reation and to teachers, or anyone who
likes carving or engraving. However.
they should have left out the patterns in
the back of the book. Today, patterns
are considered obsolete for creative
work and original ones are always more
desirable.

The International Book of Christmas
Carols, Walter Ehret and George K.

Evans. Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs,
New Jersey. Pp. 338. $10.00.

This large, beautiful hook abounds
in joyous carols which everyone will
love to sing. It offers 164- selections that
include a generous number of carols of
English, French, German, Scandinav-
ian, Slavic, Italian, and Spanish origin.
All non-English carols appear in the
original with English translation. The
piano accompaniments are simply all
and tastefully done; chord indications

are provided for accordion, guitar, auto-
harp, ukulele, or chord organ. Infor-
mation about carols, a chord chart, and
complete index add to the usefulness of
this superb publication. It is a publi-
cation well worth the price for those
who like to gather together for singing
at Christmas time. It should rekindle
that special feeling one gets in a gather-
round songfest.——Siebolt Frieswyk, Na-
tional Recreation Association Program
Service.

A Book of Christmas Carols, selected
and illustrated by Haig and Regina
Shekeriian; arranged for piano, with
guitar chords by Robert De Cormier.
Harper and Raw, 49 East 33rd Street,
New York 10016. Pp. 160. $5.95.

This collection is assuredly not just
another publication of Christmas ear-
ols. It is a distinctive one. The sixty-six
selections themselves, hoth old and less
familiar, are arranged in distinctive
order; the songs illustrated in a most
charming, inspirational, and colorful
way; the printing done in varied and
appropriate type; and the songs with
illustrations spiced with beautiful nar-"
ratives, delightful old quotations, and
intriguing old recipes. This publication
makes possible a complete enjoyment of
carol singing—S. F.

The Technique of Pottery, Dara M.
Billington. Hearthside Press, 118 East
28th Street, New York 16. Pp. 222,
illustrated. $6.95.

This is a quite tcclmieal and schol-
arly book for potters on the techniques
of pottery. The chemistry of pottery is
discussed and materials of use to potters
are listed. It should be of great help
to most anyone who is at all interested
in this exciting craft. It is quite thor-
ough, with the glaze section well written
in an understandable language for the
layman which is not always true of this
technical subject in other books. The
mystery of glazes is solved with simple
explanations which would be very help-
ful to a student, teacher, or a potter.

The book was written by a teacher in
England who has been very successful
in her teaching. Also included is a fine
glossary of terms used in pottery and
also a list of dealers in pottery equip-
ment, both in England and the U.S. and
a short, but very fine, bibliography of
the best in books on the subject—M. B.
Cummings.

RECREATION

 

BOOKS 8. PAMPHLETS RECEIVED

AUTOMATION, LEISURE, SOCIAL CHANGE

A utomation Age, The, Pouline Arnold and Perci-
_val White. Holiday House, 8 W. 13th St., New
York 10011. Pp. 197. $3.95.

(nallenge of Leisure, The, Charles K. Brightbill.
PrentiCe-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, N.J. Pp. 118.

Paper, $1.75.
tel ing the Family in Urban Society, Fred Delli—
' uadri, Editor. Columbia Univ. Press, 2960

Broadway, New York 10027. Pp. 184. $4.00.
rban Condition, The, Leonard J. DuhI. Basic

Books, 404 Park Ave. S., New York 10016.
Pp. 410. $10.00.

 

i HURCH

Blessed Mother Seton, Richard Cordinal Cushing.
Daughters of St. Paul, 50 St. Paul's Ave., Jo-
gizogzg Ploin, Boston 30. Pp. 158. $3.00 (paper,

. ).

)aily Prayers for Youth, Walter L. Cook. Asso-
ciation Press, 291 Broadway, New York 10007.
Pp. 95. $1.95.

)ating for Young Cathalics, Very Rev. Msgr.
George A. Kelly. Doubleday, 575 Madison Ave.,
New York 10022. Pp. 135. $2.95.

.etter to Women Religious, Pope John XXIII.
Daughters of St. Paul 50 St. Paul's Ave., Jo-
maica Plain, Boston 30. Pp. 16. $.15.

Mean Until . . . Father John Koenig. Daughters
of St. Paul, 50 St. Paul's Ave., Jamaica Plain,
Boston 30. Unpaged. $.25.

Non-Christian Religions A—Z, Horace L. Friess,
Ph.D., Editor. Grosset 6' Dunlap, 1107 Broad-
woy, New York 11010. Pp. 278. Paper, $2.50.

Problem of Charity for Self Theology, The, Sister

Mar?! DeFerrari. Daughters of St. Paul, 50 St.

Pau's Ave., Jamaica Plain, Boston 30. Pp.
205. $3.50.

Religious School Assembly Book, The, Lauis Lister,
Editar. Union of Amer. Hebrew Congregations,
ggBSSth Ave., New York 10021 . Pp. 258. Paper,

Saint Patrlck and the lrlsh, Richard CordinaI
Cushing. Daughters of St. Paul, 50 St. Paul's
Ave., Boston 30. Pp. 118. $2.50 (paper,
$1.50).

Study, Discussion, Action Resources (Youth Kit
#21), J. Wilbur Pattersan, Norman F. Dang-
ford, and Donald L. Leanord. Geneva Press,
705 Witherspaon Bldg., Walnut and Juniper
Sts., Philadelphia 7. Pp. 232. Paper, $3.50.

STORYBOOKS

Bats and Balls, Beman Lord. Henry Z. Walck,
101 5th Ave., New York 3. Pp. 60. $2.95.

Big Frogs, Little Frogs, Patricia K. Miller and
Iran L. seligman. Holt, Rinehart £3 Winston,
$8395Madisan Ave., New York 17. Unpaged.

Book to Begin On, A, Suzonne De Barhegyi. Holt,
Rinehart and Winston, 383 Madison Ave., New
York 17. Unpaged. $2.50.

Butterflies and Maths, Ronald N. Raod. Grosset

6' Dunlap, 1107 Broadway, New York 10. Pp.
48. $1.00.

Captain Kangaroo's» Sleepytime Book. Random
House, 457 Madison Ave., New York 22. Un—
paged. $1.00.

Cat Story, A, Elliott Gilbert. Holt, Rinehart 6'
Winston, 383 Madison Ave., New York 17.
Unpaged. $1.95.

Circus, The, Mary Kay Phelon. Holt, Rinehart Gr
Winston, 383 Madison Ave., New York 17. Un-
paged. $2.50.

Crazy Zoo That Dudley Drew, The, Car! Rose.

Little, Brown, 34 Beacon St., Boston 6. Pp. 58.
$2.95.

Dr. Seuss's Sleep Book. Random House, 457 Mad-
ison Ave., New York 22. Unpaged. $2.95.

Dolphin Island, Arthur C. Clarke. Holt, Rinehart
6' Winston 383 Madison Ave., New York 17.
Pp. 186. $5.50.

Elizabite, H. A. Rey. Harper 6' Raw, 49 E. 33rd
St., New York 16. Unpaged. $2.75.

First Book of Camping,'The, E. C. Jones. Fronk-
lin Watts, 575 Lexington Ave., New York 22.
Pp. 79. $2.50.

First Book of They, The, William Scudder. Har—
caurt, Broce 6' World, 750 3rd Ave., New York
17. Unpaged. $2.95.

First Book of Tools, The, Gene Liberty. Franklin
Watts, 575 Lexington Ave., New York 22. Pp.
62. $1.95.

First Book of Weeds, The, Barbara L. Beck.
Franklin Watts, 575 Lexington Ave., New York
22. Pp. 66. $2.50.

Fish, Geoffrey Cae. Grosset 6' Dunlop, I 107 Broad-
way, New York 10. Pp. 48. $1.00.

Forest Fire Mystery, The, Franklin FaIsam. Har-

vey Hause, lrvmgtan-an-Hudson, N.Y. Pp.
284. $2.95.

Golden Counting Book. Golden Press, 850 3rd
Ave., New York. Unpaged. $1.49.

Hurrah for Hats, Peggy Wogner. Childrens Press,

DECEMBER, 1963

Jackson Blvd. Gr Racine Ave. Chicago 7. Un-
poged. $2.50.

I'm Not Me, Myro Cohn leingstan. Harcourt,
Brace Gr World, 750 3rd Ave., New York 17.
Unpoged. $1.95.

Jally Blue Boat, Joan and Jane Courtright. ChII-
drens Press Jackson Blvd. and Rocine Ave.,
Chicago 7. Unpaged. $2.50.

Learning Book, The, Suson Darritt. Abelord-
Schumon, 404 Park Ave. S., New York 16. Un-
paged. $2.75.

Light and Color, Horold Joseph Highland. Gros-

set 6' Dunlop, 1107 Broadway, New York 10.
Pp. 48. $1.00.

Light Princess, The, George Mocdonold. Thos.
Crowell, 432 Park Ave. S., New York 16. Pp.
48. $3.50.

Little Chief Mischief. N. Solter-Mothieson. lvan
ggcggnsky, 341 E. 62 St., New York 21. Pp. 45.

Machines at Work, Mory Elting. Horvey Hause,
lrvington-on-Hudson, New York. Pp. 90. $2.50.

Maglc Boy, Mike Thaler. Harper and Row, 49
E. 33rd St., New York 16. Unpoged. $1.95.

Magnets, Rocco V. Ferovalo. Grosset 6' Dunlop,
1107 Broadway, New York 10. Pp. 64. $1.00.

Nobody Plays with a Cabbage, Meindert DeJong.
Harper and Row, 49 E. 33rd St., New York 16.
Pp. 52. $2.75.

Sea So Blg, Shlp So Small, Jeanne Bendick. Rond
gtzcglsally, P. O. #7600, Chicago 80. Pp. 80.

Secret Story of Pueblo Bonita, The, Mary Elting

and Michael Folsom. Harvey House, lrvington-
on-Hudson, N.Y. Unpaged. $2.50.

Secret Three, The, Mildred Myrick. Harper and
 49 E. 33rd St., New Yark 16. Pp. 64.
Seminoles, Irene Estep. Melmant Publ. Jackson
Blvd. 6' Racine Ave., Chicago 7. Pp. 31. $2.50.

Ships at Work, Mary Elting. Horvey House, Irv-
ington-on-Hudson, New York. Pp. 92. $2.50.

Spring is a New Beginning, Joan Walsh Ang-
lund. Harcourt, Brace Gr World, 750 3rd Ave.,
New York 17. Unpaged. $1.95.

 

Stars, Phaebe Crosby. Grosset 6' Dunlop, 1107
Broadway, New York 10. Pp. 64. $1.00.

Three Billy-Goats Gruff, The, Holt, Rinehart and
Winston, 383 Madison Ave., New York 17.
Unpaged. $1.95.

Tralns at Work, Mary Elting. Harvey Hause, lrv-
ington-an-Hudson, N.Y. Pp. 90. $2.50.

Trucks at Work, Mary Elting, Horvey House, lrv-
ington-on-Hudson, N.Y. Pp. 93. $2.50.

 

MAGAZINE ARTICLES

HOUSE BEAUTlFUL, November 1963 .
Embosslng—The New Easy Way to Make Holi-
day Decorations, Phoebe Hyde.

PARENTS' Magazine, November 1963
Youth Group Achievement Awards.
Play ls Child's Work, Alvin Schwortz.
The integrated Club, Betty Baum.
Kids Should Be Bored Sometimes, Robert W.
Wells.
Manners Are from the Heart, Suzonne Hart
Stroit.
SCHOOL ACTlVITlES, October 1963 .
Our Junlor Historlans Club, John R. Sahli.
How to Organize and Present Card-Stunts
(half-time maneuvers), Habby Spaulding
and Andy Cheathom.

SPORTS lLLUSTRATED, October 21, 1963
Babes in a Swampland (Florlda's Cypress Gar-
dens), William B. Furlong.
, October 28, .1963
Very Dry Run in Tokyo (Olympics). .
Flsh, Fowl, and Smoke (cooking with smoke),

Rob rt Cantwell.
e , November 4, 1963

Fire Watch in a Dry, Dry Woodland, Coles
Phinizy. .

The Bookies of Doom (sport insurance), Don
Jenkins. . o
The Great California Fish Rush, CoIes Phinizy.

YWCA Magazlne, November 1963 _ .
Experlment in Outdoor Education, William H.
Whyte. . .
Volunteers Run Hobby Night, Corol Quinn.

 

 

 

STATEMENT OF OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT AND CIRCULATION
(Act of October 23. 1962; Section 4369, United States Code)

 

I. DATE OF FILING

October 1, 1963 RECREATION

2. TITLE OF PUBLICATION

3. FREQUENCY OF ISSUE

10 issues per year
(monthly except July 8. August)

 

4. LOCATION OF KNOWN OFFICE OF PUBLICATION

National Recreation Association, B West 8th Street, New York, N. Y. 10011

 

.5. LOCATION OF THE HEADQUARTERS OR GENERAL BUSINESS OFFICES OF THE PUBLISHERS

B West Bth Street, New York, N. Y. 10011

 

6. NAMES AND ADDRESSES OF PUBLISHER, EDITOR, AND MANAGING EDITOR

 

PUBLISHER

National Recreation Association, B West Bth St., New York, N. Y.

MANAGING EDITOR
Dorothy Donaldson, B West Bth St., New York, N. Y.

EDITOR
Joseph Prendergast,
B West Bth St., New York, N. Y.

 

7. OWNER: National Recreation Association, 8 W. Bth, New York, N. Y.; Otticers: James H. Evans, chairman
of the board, B West Bth Street, New York, N. Y.; Susan M. Lee, vice-president, B West Bth Street, New .York,
N. Y.: Luther GuIIck, vice-president, B West Bth Street, New York, N. Y.; Endicott P. Dawson, Vice-president,
B West Bth Street, New York, N. Y.; Adrian M. Mossle, treasurer, B West Bth Street, New York, N. Y.; Joseph
Prendergast, secretory, B West Bth Street, New York, N. Y.

 

B. KNOWN BONDHOLDERS, MORTGAGEES, AND OTHER SECURITY HOLDERS OWNING OR HOLDING 1 PERCENT
OR MORE OF TOTAL AMOUNT OF BONDS, MORTGAGES OR OTHER SECURITIES: NONE (A NON PROFIT

ORGANIZATION)

 

9. Paragraphs 7 and B include, in cases where the stockholder or securlty holder appears upon the books of the
company as trustee or in any other Rduciary relation, the name at the person or corporation for whom. such
trustee Is acting, also the statements In the two paragraphs show the aftiant s full knowledge and belief as
to the circumstances and conditions under thch stockholders and security holders who do not appear upon the.
books at the company as trustees, hold stack and securities In a capoclty other than that afoo bono tide owner.
Names and addresses of Individuals who are stockholders of a corporation which itself IS. a stockholder or
holder of bonds, mortgages or other securities of the publishlng corporation haVe been Included in para-
graphs 7 and B when the Interests of such indivlduals are equivalent to I percent or more of the total amount

at the stack or securities of the publishlng corporation.

 

10. THIS ITEM MUST BE COMPLETED FOR ALL PUBLICATIONS EXCEPT THOSE WHICH DO NOT CARRY ADVER-
TISING OTHER THAN THE PUBLISHER'S OWN AND WHICH ARE NAMED IN SECTIONSOI32.231, 132.232,
AND 132.233, POSTAL MANUAL (Sections 4355a,, 4355b, and 4:56 of Title 39. Umted States Code)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AVERAGE NO.
COPIES EACH SINGLE ISSUE.
ISSUE DURING NEAREST TO
PRECEDING FILING DATE
12 MONTHS
A. TOTAL NO. COPIES PRINTED 13,700 13,600
B. PAID CIRCULATION
I. TO TERM SUBSCRIBERS BY MAll, CARRIER DELIVERY
OR BY OTHER MEANS. 11,029 10,700
2. SALES THROUGH AGENTS, NEWS DEALERS, OR OTHERWISE. 330 1,027
C. FREE DISTRIBUTION (including samples) BY MAIL, CARRIER
DELIVERY, OR BY OTHER MEANS. 2,341 1.873
D. TOTAL NO. OF COPIES DISTRIBUTED 13,700 13,600
' d b have a a correct and complete.
I certify that the statements ma e y me a r FRANK J. ROWE, Business Manon"

 

483

 

MARKET NEWS

 

1! Instant marble. A liquid plastic called Marblene com-
bines with a powdered filler to simulate real marble without
the natural disadvantages that sometimes make the real thing
impractical. The finished Marblene slab or figurine is natur-
ally white in color, although color pigments may be added
to match any available real marble pattern or color. Pri-
inarily used for custom vanity and table tops, inlay slabs and
decorative plaques, this material can also be used for creat-
ing original jewelry, statuary, et cetera, because it can be
molded to any shape or form. The process is simple: just add
filler, mix, and pour into mold. The finished piece is ready
for removal in a few hours. The advantages of Marblene over
real marble are fourfold: (1) more stain and etch resistant,
(2) greater abrasion resistance, (3) impact resistance four
times greater, and (4) three times as strong (load-bearing) .
Two sizes of kits plus bulk materials are available. Addi-

tional information may be obtained from Crystal Craft Cen-
ter, Inc., 4350 North Whipple Street, Chicago 18.

0 Quick rinks. A new liner material has been engineered
to quickly convert fiat terrain—lawns, tennis and hasketball
courts, parking lots and football fields—into safe, smooth,
melt-resistant ice-skating rinks. The liner consists of a mul-
tiple of 10-niil white vinyl strips cemented together with a
bond equaling the material in strength. Because its heavy
construction resists puncturing, tearing, and cuts, the liner
provides several years of satisfactory service—and its white
color and reHectance qualities reduces melting of the ice sur-
faces to give 35-200 percent longer skating than rinks di-
rectly on earth, grass, concrete, or blacktop.

Use of Ice-master vinyl liners enahles quick, simple con—
struction of skating rinks in safe areas——as opposed to util-
izing streams and ponds where children may be exposed to
the danger of falling through the ice. Standard sizes for
liners are 6l’-by-102' for tennis courts but other sizes are
made to order. Erection of an Icemaster skating rink is both
quick and simple. A frame is erected around the area to be
Hooded; sheeting is spread over the area, and the sheeting
edges secured to the frame. The area is then flooded with
clean water to a minimum depth of four inches. For further
information, write the C & S Packaging Company, 1982
West Jefferson Avenue, Detroit 16, or 78 Dryden Road, Up-
per Montclair, New Jersey.

0 Dual-Duty golf car and yard caddy. A thrifty double-
duty golf car, convertible in off-course hours to a handy
utility vehicle for innumerable hauling and gardening
chores, is named the Scotsman. The economical gasoline-
powered golf car is so designed that a utility body fits neatly
on its rear deck. The utility hox is installed with an open
hinge to facilitate dumping of cuttings, fertilizer, and other
material. Also available is a surrey top for all-weather pro-
tection on the golf course or on yard duty.

Powered by a four-cycle, five horsepower engine, the
Scotsman has forward speed of twelve miles per hour, nimbly
about faces in a turning circle of only 11% feet. The en-
gine is mounted in rubber to minimize vihration. and a baffie
system and foam-lined engine compartment effectively iso-
late engine noise. The tri-wheel Scotsman includes as stand-
ard equipment automatic electric starting, embodied in a

twelve-volt starter-generator system. Among other conven-
ience features are simplified two-control (brake and acceler-
ator) operation, positive-locking parking brake, and manu-
ally operated choke. For golfing convenience, it features
front mounted golf racks and handy ball and tee compart-
ment.

The Scotsman, with all steel construction, measures 381/;
inches high, 401/2 inches wide, and 781/; inches long. It _
weighs 370 pounds, has a ground clearance of four inches.
Additional information about the Scotsman can be obtained
from Cuslnnan Motors, Lincoln, Nebraska.

0 The way the ball bounces. Harvard University has be-
gun construction of the nation’s first completely plastic-
enclosed indoor tennis courts. The 160’-by—135’ building,
housing three green clay doubles courts, will be covered
with a 34,800-square-feet “skin” of rigid vinyl building
panels. It will rise amid the complex of other Harvard sport
facilities on the bank of the Charles River, adjacent to the

Dillon Field House and the Watson Hockey Rink.

.V I
V}

 

The building will be heated for year-round play by jets
of hot air forced around the curve of the plastic roof from
two heating plants, one on either side of the structure. For
warm weather use, the entire bottom tier of panels, seven
feet high, may be removed to provide cross ventilation. The
vinyl panels will be installed in sections over an arched
wooden framework c1nhedded in concrete footings. They
will be bound securely in place by steel cables. According
to the manufacturer of the panels, the 57-feet-long sections
that will span the building’s central arch will be the largest
rigid vinyl sheets ever extruded in the United States.

Because the translucent panels will admit some thirty per-
cent of the sun’s light, there will be no need for artificial
illumination during the day. Lights for night competition
will be placed in the side of the building where they will
not interfere with the vision of the players. “We felt that the
effect created by the vinyl panels made them the ideal medi-
um for this type of construction,” says James P. Clapp, Jr.,
partner in the architectural firm. “The dramatic effect of
the sun coming in in the daytime and the lights going out at
night will give the courts a feeling of existence as a struc-
ture that could not be matched by using convention] forms of
covering such as iron or aluminum.” The $250,000 building
will be named in honor of W. Palmer Dixon, Harvard squash
racquets and tennis star of the 1920’s, who is donating the
courts to the university.

For further information about the vinyl panels, write to

Product Publicity Department, Allied Chemical Corpora-
tion, 40 Rector Street, New York 10006.

For further information, please write directly to source given and mention RECREATION Magazine.

484

RECREATION

RESOURCE GUIDE

 

 AIDS—Please Write Directly To Sources Given

(HRISTMAS CHEER

SAFE AND SANTA. Christmas is one holiday
which should never be marred by the tragedy
of fire. Yet the ways we celebrate it—with
trees, wreaths, colored lights, hanging decora-
tions—mean extra fire hazards and the need
. for special precautions. A complete line of
materials to promote fire safety at Christmas
is now available from the National Fire Pro-
tection Association.

Tips on Christmas tree care are featured on
a colorful new Sparky poster which is both
attractive and educational. It is effective for
display in a wide range of places, from com-
munity centers and churches to plant and of-
fice bulletin boards. A Holiday Message to
You is a folder describing in detail the safe
handling of Christmas trees, precautions about
lights and decorations, the disposal of wrap-
pings and even the selection of toys. For the
children there is a Christmas tree coloring
card which includes a “pledge” for the child
to keep the tree well supplied with water and
to guard it from sparks and flames while it is
standing in tbe home. After it is colored, the
card may he hung on the tree as an ornament.

For samples and quantity prices on these
materials, write the Public Relations Depart-
ment, National Fire Protection Association,
60 Batterymarcb Street, Boston 2110. ( See
also “Santa’s Safety List,” RECREATION, NO-
vember 1963.)

   

Page
American Playground Device
Inside Front Cover

Anderson Manufacturing __ Inside Front Cover

 

Ball-Boy _“_____________.___._________. 465-8
Brunswick Sports __...____..________ 457
Burgess Publishing ........__.._..._..__.__. 443
Classified Advertising ______ 486
EIeclro-Mech _.__.-___..__...__.._.....__......__. 480
Flickertail Sports Co. _..___. Inside Back Cover
Gold Medal ..__. 447-8

Galloway Friendship Tours _.._..__,___._._.I 440
Kwikbilt _____..___..__. 439
Par-Buster _____.___.____. 439

Recreation Magazine Binders
Inside' Front Cover

 

 

 

 

Tams-Witmark _..____-___...__.___.._ 437
Tandy leather WWW 439
Toilallex __ Inside Front Cover
Trophy World _n____.____.._..___. 480
United Fund __.__ 480

World-Wide Games 480

   

DECEMBER, 1963

JOY TO THE WORLD. Christmas catalogue of-
fered by Lutheran Church supply stores in-
cludes program aids for both the church and
community center program as well as budgct-
priced gifts. Here are records, hooks, creches,
wreathes, candles, stained glass transparen-
cies, music boxes, and Bible study belps. Cat-
alogue available at your local Lutheran supply
store or from Lutheran Church Supply Stores,
2900 Queen Lane, Philadelphia 19129 or 639
38th Street, Rock Island, Illinois 61202. (In
Canada, 346 King Street West, Kitchener,
Ontario.)

IT’S SANTA CLAUS TIME! You can still order
a Santa Claus suit if you hurry. Tbeatn'cal
supply catalogue lists Santa costume sets,
wig and heard sets, as well as other makeup
accessories. It also oEers good suggestions on
designing and constructing your own scenery
for that holiday production at minimum cost
and with no construction skill. You better
hurry and request a cOpy—you can use it
later in the year as well. Write to Paramount
Theatrical Supplies, 32 West 20th Street, New
York 10011.

HOLIDAY HARMONY. Carols and songs for
Christmastide are available from music pub-
lisher who also oEers‘musical pastimes, such
as pantomimes and songs for adults—from
operas to folk tunes. For leaflets, write to
Boston Music Company, Boston, Massachu-
setts 02116.

GAMES AND SPORTS EOUIPMEHI

CUE FOR FAMILIES. The new status symbol in
family recreation is tbe home pool or billiard
table, replacing the family boat which has be-
come quite commonplace, according to sports
economist and researcher Richard E. Synder.
It follows that more families are going to want
to know more about playing pool. Cue them
in . . . set up an instruction program in your
center. A Rik-O-Shay game table provides a
solid, even surface for accurate play and per-
mits a wide variation of situations and player
strategy. For further information write to
Brinktun, Inc., 5740 Wayzata Boulevard, Min-

neapolis 16.

DON’T BE PUTT-UPON with drOOpy-looking
miniature golf courses. A new nonwoven
acrylic turf called Chemstrand always looks
fresh as the proverbial daisy. In tests, it has
been subjected to rain, high humidity, soft
drinks, heavy play, ice, sleet, and snow and
bas stayed as new as the day it was manu-
factured. For further information, write to
Chemstrand, 350 Fifth Avenue, New York
10001. -

TICK THEM OFF. In your end-of-year inven-
tory, do you find wornout or missing: basket-
balls, tetherballs, soccer equipment, volley-
balls, rubber play balls (5- to 16-inch),
softballs, bats, backboards and goals, others?

If so, send for a Rawlings Sporting Goods
catalogue at 2300 Delmar Boulevard, St.
Louis 3, Missouri. Check it especially for the
made-to-last Herculite balls exclusive with
Rawlings. You can’t wear ’em out; to get rid
of them you have to lose ’em.

OBSTACLES FOR FITNESS. Hurdles, tunnels,
fences, balance beams, horizontal ladders,
parallel bars are all part of a portable
obstacle course than can be used in your
physical fitness program. (For example, see
“Physical Fitness Pilot Project,” in the June
1963 issue of RECREATION, for the program
in Huntington, New York.) For eitber out-
door or indoor use, this has been deveIOped
for all age groups, and both boys and girls.
Each piece is built of lifetime steel and quick-
ly disassembles for easy moving and storage.
Write for further details to American Athletic
Equipment Company. J eEerson, Iowa.

PROGRAM AIDS

MEETING SPECIAL NEEDS. Recreation has today
assumed its place as an essential service for
the handicapped whether in a hospital, an in-
stitution, or in the community. In addition,
programs are now being planned for the band-
icapped who are homebound. The United
Cerebral Palsy Associations, Inc., recently
publisbed Recreation for the Homebound Per-
son with Cerebral Palsy written by Morton
Thompson, Ed.D., director of the National
Recreation Association Consulting Service on
Recreation for the III and Handicapped. It
covers program goals, program planning, fa-
cilities, cquipment and supplies, types of ac-
tivity, and resources for the home program.
Single cOpies are available free from the
UCPA at 321 West 44th Street, New York
10036.

IS HELPING FEOFLE YOUR JOB? The Family
Service Association of America 03ers books
and pamphlets containing the latest tech-
niques developed in the social work and re-
lated fields. Recreation leaders will find valu-
able tools in such F SAA publications as Psy-
chosocial Development of Children, The Ado-
lescent and his World, and Casework with the
Aging, among many others. For a free cata-
logue, write to F SAA at 44 East 23rd Street,
New York 10010.

DEFINITE POLICY. In 1962-63, the White Plains,
New York, Recreation Advisory Committee
'and the city Department of Recreation and
Parks made an extended survey of teen cen-
ters, youth groups, and other social facilities
iu White Plains As a result, the advisory
committee requested that a definite policy on
the subject of teen centers be established.
Tbe department tben issued a manual for teen

centers and youth centers setting forth a policy
and a set of Operating standards. A limited

supply of the manual is available to recreation
and park agencies. Please send a self-ad-

dressed, stamped ($.15) envelope to Depart-
ment of Recreation and Parks, Administra-

tion Building, Cedney Way, White Plains,
Ncw York.

485

[OW-008T AIDS

Order these resources and references di-
rectly from source given (enclose remittance).

 

HOLIDAY HAPPINESS. Christmas and Chinese
New Year are featured in the Holiday Happi-
ness Kit recently issued by the American
Friends Service Committee. A picture story
of children at the Hong Kong Day Nursery
enjoying a Christmas party is followed by
detailed suggestions about the observance
of Chinese New Year in. any American com-
munity. The Year of the Dragon, beginning
February 15, 1964, may be inaugurated with
a “holiday happiness” supper, festival, fair,
or party. In this kit are ideas for invitations
and table decorations, as well as authentic
Chinese recipes, games, and songs. Central
to the kit is a children’s service project relat-
ing to the Hong Kong Day Nursery operated
by the American Friends Service Committee.
A simple ceremony, suitable for school or
church use, is also included in this ten-page
packet. The kit may be purchased for $.15
from the Children’s Program, AFSC, 160
North 15th Street, Philadelphia 2.

TESTED KNOW-HOW. The superintendent of
recreation in Manchester, Connecticut, James
F. Herdic, J r., has written a 65-page manual
dealing with the organization of a senior
citizen’s club and covering such tOpics as
sponsors, program leaders, ofiicers, minutes,
fees, committees, and program. The program
section is excellent and describes activities
such as pencil and paper games, active skits,
mixers, community singing, dancing, and en-
tertainment. The manual should provide club
leaders with fresh program ideas. Entitled
Organizing and Programming a Successful
Senior Citizens Club, the manual is available
for $1.50 from the Horton Handicraft Com-
pany, Unionville, Connecticut.

FOR STUDY AND UNnEnsTANDINc. The U.S. De-
partment of Health, Education and Welfare
has just published an excellent pamphlet,
Books for Leaders W ho Work with Children
and Youth, for the National Committee For
Children and Youth. This list was compiled
by the American Library Association.

The resources for study and understanding
by leaders are organized under such headings
as “Society Today,” “Youth in Society,"
“Characteristics and Needs of Children,”
“Children and Youth with Special Needs,”
and “Education and School Services.”

This pamphlet also includes a listing of re-
source material prepared from, and imple-
menting, the 1960 White House Conference
on Children and Youth. It may be ordered

from the Government Printing OHice, Wash-
ington 25, D.C. for $.40.

MUCH NEEDS TO BE DONE. A comprehensive
rcview of today’s needs and problems in rec-
reation for the handicapped is presented in
Recreation in Treatment Centers by a group
of experts from educational, institutional, and
community settings. The articles are con-
cerned mainly with the needs of the handi-
capped for recreation in the community set-
ting, responsibility of recreation departments

486

and other community agencies, the improve-
ment of curriculum content, and a survey of
personnel in recreation for the handicapped.
This excellent report is a valuable addition to
the resource materials in this field. Available
for $2.50 from the American Recreation So-
ciety, 1404 New York Avenue, N.W., Wash-
ington,D. C.
0

NEW, USEFUL ANIJ ENTERTAINING information
as well as old superstitions are well mixed in

the 172nd consecutive annual edition of The
Old Farmer's Almanac for 1964. You can

learn about harvest moons and atomic energy,
find out how to make slump and grunt (a
blueberry dessert), check on postal laws and
tidal corrections. All this lore for a mere $.35

at your bookstore or from the publisher,
Yankee, Inc., Dublin, New Hampshire.

IDEA KITS. Leaders of church youth groups
will remember the Youth Fellowship Kits is-
sued by the Board of Education of the Presby-
terian Church. The latest in this series, which
has undergone several changes in name from
initial publication in 1943, are Junior Hi Kit
#20—Annual Program Resources for Ad-
visors of Junior High Groups ( pp. 160, $3.00)
and Youth Kit #21—Study, Discussion, Ac-
tion Resources (pp. 232, $3.50). Each con-
tains a section on recreation including well-
chosen activities as well as “workshop” mate-
rial for discussion and study. Both are avail-

CLASSIFIED

RATES: Words in regular type $.15 each
Words in boldface type $.25 each
Minimum ad accepted  $3.00

able from the Geneva Press, 705 Witherspoon
Building, Walnut and Juniper Streets, Phila-
delphia.

WE ALL LIVE LONcEII. In a new Public Af-
fairs pamphlet, A Full Life After 65, Edith
M. Stern discusses many of the psychologi-
cal and practical problems people face after
retirement. Some people welcome the life of
leisure they envisage; others are frightened
by what they consider “the end of the line."
For all, there are changes to understand and
adjustments to be made. Mrs. Stern offers
a realistic guide to maintaining sound mental
health in the later years. Your senior citizen
clubs will want copies of this—for group dis-

cussion and personal guidance. Available for

$.25 from Public Affairs Pamphlets, 22 West
38th Street, New York 10016 (discount on
quantity orders).

NEW DIMENSION. Since World War II, a
revolution has taken place in the world of
sound reproduction. Yet there are many who
do not understand the fundamentals of hi-fi
and stereo. A 96-page manual, All About High
Fidelity 8: Stereo, is an easy-to-understand
presentation of fundamentals written for the
benefit of anyone interested in obtaining
maximum enjoyment and use from high-fideli-
ty equipment. Available for $.50 from the
Allied Radio Corporation, 100 N. Western
Avenue, Chicago 30.

ADVERTISING

DEADLINES: Copy must be received by
the fifth of the month preceding date at
the issue in which ad is desired.

COPY: Type—or clearly print—your message and the address to which you wish
replies sent. Underline any words you want to appear in boldface type.

Send copy with remittance to:
RECREATION Classified Advertising, 8 West 8th Street, New York, New York 10011.

HELP WANTED

arts and crafts materials in

Recreation Leader—Col-

lege graduate with major
in physical education or
recreation. Some experi-
ence in broad recreation
program. Work involves su-
pervising recreation ac-
tivities at playground or
community center. Promo-
tional Opportunities and
liberal employe benefits.
Salary $4875-$5850 per an-
num. Apply: Director of

Personnel, Municipal
Building, Hartford, Conn.

Director of Recreation
for a small town in Massa-
chusetts with a pOpulation
of nine thousand located on
the North Shore. Estab-
lished program with a full-
time director for the ast
ten years. Starting as ary
over $5,000 with an added
car allowance. Apply Rec-
reation Commission, Oliice
of the Board of Selectman,
Ipswich, Massachusetts.

Director of Cemetery,
Parks, Recreation—Sal-

ary Range $6143-$7028 per

year. To administer park,
recreation, forestry, and
cemetery o erations for city
of nine t Ousand pepula-
tion. Requires college de-

ee in park management,
orestry, or related field,
plus two years ex rience
in field or equiv cnt ex-
perience. Application
deadline: December 15,
1963. Send resume of ex-
perience and qualifications
to: City Manager, City
Hall, Coldwater, Michigan.

Supervising Recreation
Specialist. $616-$749. To
direct an arts and crafts
program. Equal to college
graduation and two years
of full-time professional
experience in supervising
a comprehensive arts and
crafts program. Closing
date: December 16. Apply
to Tom Peterson, Cit of
San Diego, Room 453, ivic
Center, 1600 Pacific High-
way, San Diego 1, Califor-
ma.

Salesmcn. Largest manu-
facturer and distributor of

the East is looking for part-
time salesmen for Southern,
Midwestern, a n d W e s t
Coast states to call on rec-
reation facilities and
camps. Commission basis.
Selected territories are
available. Must have ex-
perience. Please send de-
tails to Box D63, RECREA-
TION Magazine, 8 West 3th
Street, New York 10011.

Therapists for California
State Hospitals. Opportu-
nity to plan and conduct
individual paticnt recrea-
tion as well as special
group activities; modern
equipment and facilities
available. Positions open to
college graduates with ma-
jor in recreation or recrea-
tion therapy, which includ-
ed supervised field work.
No experience required.
Starting salary $463.00 per
month; liberal employee
benefits Write State Per-
sonnel Board, 801 Capitol
Avenue, Sacramento, Cali-
fornia.

The publisher “turner no responsibility for services or items advertised here.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

RECREATION

ARTS 63 CRAFTS CORNER

 

Photographing Your Fish

A RELATIVELY UNEXPLORED FACET of the tropical fish hOIJ-
by is the art of photographing fish. This can be done
inexpensively by using a box-type double-lens reflex camera,
photoflood bulbs, and a close-up attachment. All together,
this will probably cost less than $15.00 To adapt the box
camera to this specialized task, it is necessary to have a

close-up lens which fits over the camera lens by means of
Scotch tape or an adapter ring. On the Argus 75, I employ
a Series 5, #3 close-up f 5 refers to lens diameter and 3 re-
fers to lens strength). The #3 brings objects into focus
at distances of fifteen inches.

Before shooting, clean the aquarium glass well and have
the water as clear as possihle. Place either two #1 photo-
floods or one R32 Sylvania photoflood bulb into an ordinary
house lamp (or lamps) with a metal reflector. I usually
put one flood at the top and one at the side of the tank. The

#1 floods could also he placed directly in the aquarium
reflector.

After loading with Tri-X Pan film, I hold the camera at
an angle to the front glass so that its reflection doesn’t be-
come included in the picture. To keep the fish within focus,
a plate of glass may be inserted in the tank parallel to the
front glass. It is important to be accurate when measuring
distances since when pictures are taken at short range, focus-
ing is critical.

Although good pictures can be obtained with a box
camera, better shots can he had using more expensive ap-
paratus. A single lens reflex 35MM camera will give ex-
cellent results when used with the same lighting arrangement
described for the box camera.

A single lens reflex camera is more desirable than the
standard viewfinder 35MM camera because at short range
the object is seen in the viewfinder as it will appear in the
finished picture. However, with a standard viewfinder
35MM camera, objects seem out of focus in the viewfinder
at short range. This can be corrected hy shooting at greater
distances from the subject without using a closeup attach-
ment, and then later enlarging the portion of the picture
desired. An alternative solution is to purchase an auxiliary
viewfinder but I haven’t found this ideal.

Please note that the methods described here are not the
only ones and I’m sure that after trying these you will be
ahle to improve on them and devise your own.-——JOHN J.
BERGER in The Aquarium (Reprinted with permission).

Hanging Flower Garden

ELECT three dried gourds of varying sizes and shapes.
S Carefully cut openings in the gourds large enough to in-
sert flowers and Oasis floral foam. Cut two openings for
the flowers in tlie gourd that you’ll use in the middle and
remove seeds. Then make small holes at the t0ps, string
rope through these holes, and hang them on a wall or from
a rafter. Daisies, snapdragons, lilies, philodendron, bache-
lor’s buttons, ageratum, ivy—all types of flowers and greens
can be used in the gourds. Use many colors, or just gerani-
ums or greens. Place saturated Oasis inside the gourds. If
openings will not accommodate an entire cylinder of Oasis,
cut the WET cylinder into sections with a knife. Then in-
sert flower stems into the foam to create a downward motion.
Water should be added when arrangements are finished.
Then water regularly. Replace the flowers as needed.

DECEMBER, 1963

Arts ’n’ Crafts Internationale

Last year, Children’s Art Month (March) was highlighted
by the Berkeley Recreation and Parks Department in a
“Youth Chorus and Arts ’n’ Crafts lnternationale.” The
special program was threefold: a display of children’s arts-
and-crafts projects from eleven school playgrounds and six
city parks; an “Arts ’n’ Crafts-in-Action” series with chil-
dren making collages, driftwood sculpture, paper figures,
and sketching; and special music with the forty-voice Youth
Chorus presenting songs with an international flavor. The
recreation staff in charge of “Arts ’n’ Crafts-in-Action” wore
international costumes. The series had a full attendance the
entire afternoon. Children, as well as adults, made the vari-
ous projects and were given how-t0 flyers to take home. An
excellent way to highlight Children’s Art Month as a one-
day program.—DON LINDLEY, Recreation Activities Coordi-
notor, Berkeley, California.

 

0n Recreation Literacy
Continued from Page 459

Obviously, the worker who has a dull job on an assembly
line—and many do—may find his real fulfillment in his free
time. In addition to finding a fuller life in the constructive
use of free time, a worker can use his leisure hours to serve
the needy and to move our governments toward social ac-
tion which will result in a better life for everyone. I am
proud to report that many union members do so right now.

So we of organized labor commend the National Recrea-
tion Association. It provides continuing assistance and co-
operation to improve the use of leisure time and thus well
and truly serves America.

COLONEL GUY N. BLAIR, Deputy Director of Per-

sonnel Services, U.S. Department of the Air Force:

RECREATION LITERACY [in the Air Force is] the awareness
of the critical issues of recreation and its future—the
ability to interpret and develop Air Force recreation pro-
grams as a “design for the future” rather than “a mirror
of the past.” Within the past ten years, there has been a con-
sistant trend toward providing more and more recreation
opportunities for the citizens of our nation. As more lei-
sure time becomes availahle, the need to occupy this time
in a wholesome atmosphere becomes more apparent. The
needs of the Air Force member and his family, in many in-
stances, are more acute than those of the private citizen. Any
people, however, with consistent, unoccupied time on their
hands, tend to degenerate hoth morally and physically.

Air Force families do not enjoy the close ties that develop
from a stable life in a community. They are subject to the
needs and whims of the national and political influence and
mandates. Thus, the lack of continuity in environment, the
absence of close family relationship, and the vagaries of
constant change, conspire to devel0p a restlessness that must
be compensated through recreation opportunities designed
to offset these disadvantages by making career service at-
tractive.

487

