 

RE 0 REATIO

uTIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION 0 OCTOBER 1964 0 60c
_ .7 V I. _ '  M...

 

 

ALL-AMERICAN LINE AMERICAN INSTRUCTOR LINE ALL—AMERICAN
GYMNASTIC EQUIPMENT GYMNASTIC EQUIPMENT TRAMPOLINES

 

JR. ALL-AMERICAN LINE * ALL-AMERIcAN LINE  ALL-AMERICAN

GYMNASTIC EQUIPMENT --P°RTABLE—INDOOR   ' ATHLETIc
. ,  OBSTACLE COURSE : FIELD MARKERS

 

ALL-AMERICAN LINE ALL-AMERICAN LINE ALL-AMERICAN BACKYARD
ISOMETRIC TUMBLING, WRESTLING, PORTABLE AND PIT STYLE

I CONTRACTION EQUIPMENT GYMNASTIC MATS TRAMPOL'NES l

DISCERNING BUYERS AGREE ON QUALITY. They know it’s important.
Why? Because quality builds Champions . . . quality saves money, too!
From the Little League set to the Olympic stars, athletes do their best
with top-flight equipment. That's why winning coaches and thoughtful
parents throughout the world specify AMERICAN, the brand name
you can depend Upon for superior construction and championship

performance. We guarantee same day mailing of catalogs of any of ATHLETIC EQU'PMENT
. C . l
the lInes Illustrated above Send for yours now. JEFFERSON, IOWA. USA.

\V'Iwn writing In our lllIVI'I'IIS-t‘l’s please mention RECREATION.

     

 

 ' er
@m‘gatmuall 5 355%

. f .
QM: [If/Amara a102,,

.-

awards this (It’rtifimtr to

for exa‘f’ilvnw in iiihtt‘atiuua! ermat‘sazm,
This {Zerti’fit'aii‘ represents Bistmgui-ehi‘d
owurmamw in the WW} him?“ A ward».
thmpmitimi among were than $13!} I’l’llfnlbj‘rb.

Fifi}? IHSTINGFfbHI’?!) t‘ILRthf‘sLihi}. IN

Weak 

  

M" (llama

7 avcargoaar *
 arms 3‘3 new moi
of
 minim

RECREATION, The Magazine of the Recreation Movement, an-

nounces with pride that it has been selected as a first prize winner
in the 1964 Awards Competition sponsored by the Educational

Press Association of America.

The citation is for the issue of October 1963, carrying the article
“Creative Tank Town” by William A. Rawls, Jr. of Rocky Mount,
North Carolina, who received a personal award certificate. This
award is a well-deserved tribute to Dorothy Donaldson, editor of
RECREATION, and to her staff, all of whom strive constantly to
make the magazine the standard resource on the ever-widening

field of recreation.

May we extend to the Educational Press Association of America the
grateful appreciation of the National Recreation Association——
RECREATION Magazine, staff, our magazine advertisers, and myself

~——for this very special honor.

—JOSEPH PRENDERGAST

OCTOBER, 1964 377

October 1964

RE CREATION

 

 

 

 

VOL. LVII NO. 8 PRICE 60c
THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

GENERAL

Signs of the Times . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 380
Does our landscape bear witness to our indifference?

What Is a Park? (Editorial) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mrs. James Durbin 387
Without community support a park is nothing

Heyday in the Park . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Eric Lindsay 388
Vancouver celebrates the 75th birthday of Stanley Park

Leisure: a New National Resource . . . . . . . . . . . David Rockefeller 390
An unpredictable future puts a premium on versatility

Making Headlines . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . lac A. Cropley 393
A recreation agency publishes the only newspaper in town

When Is a Recreation Area a Park? . . . . . . . . . . . . . Leslie Lynch 394
Let us clarify some confusing designations

Crash Program for Parkland Acquisition . . . . . . . Arlo Brown, J r. 397
New Jersey moves to acquire state, county, and local recreation sites

A Park Is for People . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Elliott M. Avedon 400
Why are European parks used more extensively than those in the U .S.?

Development of a Children’s Zoo . . . . . . . . . . Harold J. Van Cott 402
Realistic thinking and enthusiastic planning produce a new facility

PROGRAM

Cycling to Fitness . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Paul Dudley White 405
Ride a bike for health and happiness

Patient-Planned Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert A. Prettyman 407
Recreation therapy activities at a mental hospital

Goodwill Recreation Program . . . . . . . . . Richard A. Steinbrunner 408

Recreation activities are an important part of vocational rehabilitation

ADMINISTRATION

Blueprint for Organization . . . . . . . . . . . William Frederickson, Jr. 410
A study of operation techniques for parks and recreation

 

DIGEST _______——_____________.
The Iceman Cometh . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Vernon Green 416

Rome wasn’t built in a day and neither is a skating rink

DEPARTMENTS

Letters 379 Reporter’s Notebook 382
Rx for the Ill and Handicapped 415
Resource Guide 419 Concerning Upkeep 423
New Publications 426

 

As We Go To Press 385
Market News 418
Personnel 425

 

RECREATION is published monthi except July and August by the National Recreation Association.
a service organization supported y voluntary contributions. at 8 West 8th Street. New York, New
York 10011. s on file in public libraries and 5 Indexed in the Readers' Guide. Subscription $5.00 a
year. Canadian and foreign subscription rate $5.75. Re-entered as second-class matter April 25.
1950. at the Post Office In New York. New York. under Act of March 3. 1879. Acceptance for mailing
at special rate of postage provided for in Section 1103, Act of October 3. 1917. authorized May 1.
1924. I\il’l‘ilc'rfpfiims of current issues availabie from University Microfiims. 313 N. First Street. Ann
Arbor. lc gan.

   
 

DU CATIONAL The articles herein printed are

Copyright. 1964 by the
R E S S the expression of the writers and National Recreation Association. ‘®

'0.
.\ O
O O
I

incorporated : .
Printed in the U.S.A. 

S 5 0 c ‘ AT I ON not a statement of policy of the
OP Natlonai Recreation Association.

AMERICA

 

378

 

Editor in Chief
JOSEPH PRENDERGAST

Editor
DOROTHY DONALDSON

Assistant Editor
ELVIRA DELANY

Associate Editor for Program
VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

Business Manager
. FRANK ROWE

Advertising Manager
ESTA GLUCK

 

On the Cover

Time out for an exchange of affec-
tion and confidences at Turtle Back
Zoo, the new children’s zoo, in
Essex County, New Jersey. Children
and llamas understand each other.
(Sometimes llamas eat straw hats
if visitors don’t watch out!) For
zoo story, see Page 402. Photo-
graph courtesy Essex County Park

Commission.

Next Month

The latest pamphlet in “The Per-
forming Arts as Recreation” series,
will be Opera Is Recreation to ap-
pear in the November issue as a
bonus to our magazine subscribers.
It will be published simultaneously
as a separate pamphlet and will be
available from the National Recre-
ation Association singly or in quan-
tity lots (see back cover of this issue
for prices). Continuing the em-
phasis on cultural arts will be an
article by Joseph Prendergast called
“Cultural Growth in Capital Let-
ters.” November will also launch
our series of articles on the ever
pressing problem of recruitment,
with Louis F. Twardzik explaining
“How We Fail in Recruitment” and
Earl Kauffman defining the require-
ments for “Leaders of Leisure.” A
story about the Willamalane Park
and Recreation District in Spring-
field, Oregon, “Building a Park and
Recreation Department,” will give
the significant blow-by-blow ac-
count Of the growth Of a successful
department. An article about the
ice rink in the Park District in Oak
Park, Illinois, will oiier excellent
pointers on the construction and
operation of an outdoor ice rink.

Photo Credits

Page 387, Recreation Department,
Torrington, Connecticut; 400,
Netherlands National Tourist Oliice
(A.N.V.V.), New York City; 401,
(top) Danish National Travel Of-
fice, New York City, (center) Nor-
wegian Ollicial Photo, (bottom)

Swedish Tourist Traffic Associ-
ation, Stockholm.

RECREATION

LETTERS

 

Saving Central Park

Sirs :

The first article on page 265 of the
June issue of RECREATION discusses
attempted incursions into Central Park
by the building of a pavilion or hous-
ing development in the park.

We in Wilmington faced this same
situation some years ago when the
Board of Education wished to build a
school in one of our finest parks. This
I fought on the basis that the park be-
longed to the public and that only by
their approval could it be used for
other than park purposes. The discus-
sion got so acrimonious that we finally
went to court, and I enclose herewith
a copy of the decision of our Superior
Court, ruling that park land dedicated
for this purpose for forty years or more
could never be used for any other
purpose.

I do not know whether this decision
would have any bearing on the Central
Park situation, but I Wish you would
put it in the hands of those who are
fighting this battle for whatever con-
tribution it may make.

To my mind, it will be a crime if they
start to cut up Central Park, as it will
mean the loss of the entire area in a
relatively few years, once it is started.

MAURICE DUPONT LEE, Board of
Managers, Recreation Promotion and
Service I nc., Wilmington, Delaware.
0 The National Recreation Associa—

 

RYAN‘S H. Gr R.

DRY LINE MARKERS

ALSO POWER DRIVEN AUTOLINE
From 20# to 100# Capacity

“ACE MODEL SHOWN"

Force Food —- lnstant
ShutoE — 50 lbs. Ca-
parity.

Shaker in Hopper for
Constant Flow.

Adiustablo Control on
Handle.

SAVES TIME AND
’9», MATERIAL

Send to Dept. R for booklet on other 4 models.
H. 8. R. MFG. CO., LOS ANGELES 34, CALIF.

 
  
  

 

    

k .‘ ‘s.

. . -. J31 h; {34 .-~.,,,
wan-{mung . , -. v
n ..  pcwr r.

  R

'  .... Tilda-c5111 PAID
KWlK-BlLT, INC. Box 6834, Dallas 19, Tex.

OCTOBER, 1964

tion is turning over to the New York
Council for Parks and Playgrounds the
Superior Court decision sent in by Mr.
Lee, in the hope that it will help in the
battle.——Ed.

Strengthening Amateur
Athletics

Sirs:

As an amateur coach in the New York
City schools I would like to offer the
following suggestions on youth fitness:

1. We must get our youth out of the
grandstand and into the arena through
a program of amateur sports in all our
schools, such as hiking, cycling, camp-
ing, canoeing, skating, skiing, fencing,
and gymnastics.

2. Our press should place less em-
phasis on horse racing, professional
ballgames, auto racing, and sport gam-
bling.

3. We should have more sport facili-
ties such as cycling paths, skating rinks,
hiking trails, canoe marinas, et cetera.
Every national and state park should
provide these recreation facilities.

4. Colleges and schools should show
more interest in providing individual
sport activities than in gate receipts
from ballgames.

5. The government and our schools
and colleges should offer full support in
the establishment of a national youth
hosteling project.

6. All people should receive athletic
training in schools and service, not ust
a few promising Olympic athletes.

7. The national youth fitness commit-
tee should be composed of amateur
coaches and athletes not professional
ball coaches who are more interested in
filling the grandstands.

8. Our railroads and boat and bus
lines should provide Opportunities to
the public to enjoy sports away from
the crowded cities by offering cycle
trains, hikers trains, foldboat trains,
skate trains, ski trains, et cetera. Over
five hundred cyclists enjoyed a recent
cycle train tour offered by the Long
Island Railroad.

9. Main amateur active sports have
military values and should be stressed
by our service schools, such as skiing,
skating, cycling mountaineering, et
cetera.

10. The fitness movement should not
degenerate into stunts such as the fifty-
mile-a-day hikes, which have discour-
aged millions of people.

R. C. GEIST, Theodore Roosevelt
High School, Bronx, New York.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

IT’S SENSATIONAL!

P R E C | w _
P A K  

THE NEW
and BETTER

Personally Tested and
Endorsed by HOWARD HILL

%=====—=>

run semis“, crops, CLUBS,
comers, PARK DISTRICTS

Those in the know are switching to PRE-
CISION-PAK. This new, revolutionary, square
archery target gives you 27% more shoot-
ing area, and is less expensive than any
comparable round target. Proved in tough
national tournaments. Made of highly com-
pressed "Curlex" wood fibres, it is self-
healing. Square shape is easy to stack,
stand up, carry, store, or ship. Available in
seven standard sizes. Special size targets
for automatic archery lanes, or indoor
ranges, available. Also specially designed
wire stands and carts for all sizes.

NATION-WIDE DISTRIBUTION from 30 dif-
ferent locations throughout the U.S. For
complete information and prices write:

Western Aspen Division, American Excelsior
Corp. 900 Avenue H. East, Arlington, Texas

Western Wood Division, American Excelsior
Corp. 8320 Cranford Street, Pico Rivera,
California -

American Excelsior Corporation, 1000 N.
Halsted Street, Chicago, Illinois 60622

 

America

the Beautiful?

380

SIGNS OF THE TIME

 

SPACIOUSNESS? The glorious herit-
age of the American continent is in the
hands of its people. “The good earth
will remain good only if we make it
so.”~— Stewart L. (Hall.

 

Is a new 0utdo<

RECREATION

—Which shall’ it be

 

The world’s

largest slum?

CLUTTER? Since man landed in North

America he has greatly altered the face
of the land. Have these changes low-
ered its quality? What kind of country

 

do we want?

lilosophy needed?

OCTOBER, 1964 381

A REPORTER’S NOTEBOOK

 

Mediterranean National Park

FRANCE is to have another national
park, France Actuelle.
France’s first national park is being es-
tablished in the Alps, the second is
planned for the Pyrenees, and the new
one is the island of Port-Cros out in
the Mediterranean between the coast-
al resorts of Hyeres and Le Lavandou.
An unspoiled natural preserve, it is just
under three miles long and about a mile
and a half wide. Pines and oaks and
dense growth cover the island, and on
its southern high cliffs are clouds of
sea gulls. The new park includes the
sea bed for a distance of some 650
yards from the coastline. The waters
abound with rare rockfish and a hard-
to-find species of seaweed; consequent-
ly, no trailing nets will be allowed,
no harpoon underwater fishing, no
powerboats except at reduced speeds.
On land, no growth may be changed or
harmed, no animal may be killed ex-

reports

cept for scientific purposes and under
the direction of experts. Visitors are
welcomed, says France Actuelle, “They
are offered tranquility. For many that
will be enoug .”

Crossroads Fair
AN All-Nations Fair at the Los An-

geles International Air Terminal
October 16-18 will be a project of the
Los Angeles County Department of
Parks and Recreation, All Nations
Fair, Inc., the City Airport Commission,
and International Institute. “The fair
will be an annual non-competitive and
non-commercial event to give national-
ity groups of Los Angeles County an
opportunity to exhibit the arts and cul-
tures of the countries to which they
owe their heritage,” says Joseph Alvin,
president of the All Nations Fair board
of directors. The three-day fair will
include continuous exhibits, perform-
ances and demonstrations by artists and
craftsmen in the International Air Ter-
minal’s new Satellite Building.
Native products of foreign countries
will be displayed in some seventy booths
in the fair. Continuous performances

382

by dancers, singers, and exotic and un-
usual ethnic performers will be pre-
sented onstage. Fair coordinator Rich-
ard Abernethy, special services director
of County Parks and Recreation De-
partment, reports exhibits will include
art objects, costumes, foods, and other
products typical of the nations repre-
sented. Admission will be free.

Operation Green Earth

FORTY YEARS of land use and conser-
vation practices of a coal company
are summarized in a color brochure
which describes the steps in develop-
ing mined areas into grazing or timber
lands, water recreation areas, camp-
grounds, or homesites. The Peabody
Coal Company maintains its own con-
servation department staffed with pro-
fessional personnel with experience in
forestry, wildlife and fish stocking, and
lake and recreation development. A
free copy of the brochure is available
from the Peabody Coal Company, 301
North Memorial Drive, St. Louis 2.

Man and Space

MAJOR new exhibit hall, “Astron-

omia.” that depicts the awesome
force of man’s efforts to understand
the universe, has been presented to the
American Museum—Hayden Planet-
arium in New York City, by the Inter-
national Business Machines Corpora-
tion. It is a creatively designed assem-
blage of objects and images that brings
the visitor into the dynamic world of

 

Star-gazing in “Astronomia.”

astronomy as it evolves through six
centuries. Visitor-participation dis-
plays, three-dimensional observation
chambers, some fifty authentic artifacts,
and 475 photographs reveal man’s ex-
panding view of the universe from 1400
to the present.

In reviewing the history of astron-
omy, “Astronomia” guides the visitor
through a maze of concepts as archaic
as the earth-centered universe envision-
ed by the ancient Greeks and as modern
as the nature of the quasi-stellar radio
sources being debated by astronomers
today. The complexity of the exhibi-
tion reflects the complexity of astro-
nomical thought over the ages, expres-
sed in a score of brief quotations on
panels suspended in grid form from
the ceiling. The visitor to the new hall
may well take away with him such

thoughts as:
“If the Lord Almighty had consulted

me before embarking upon the Crea-
tion, I should have recommended
something simpler.”—Alphonse X of
Castile.

“We are indeed a blind race, and the

next generation, blind to its own
blindness, will be amazed at ours.”—

L. L. White.

“I accept the universe.”—A Youth.
“You’d better.”—Thomas Carlyle.

The Country Where
Art Matters

.4
$.

SO THAT Paris “can remain the world
capital of arts,” the French Govern-
ment is going to build or rebuild hun-
dreds of studies for “poor” artists,
reports France Actuelle. Said Minister
of Culture Andre Malraux to the Nat-

ional Assembly recently, “One cannot
defend paintings and disregard the con-
ditions in which they are made. To be

5; a painter is the opposite of a privilege.
15‘In a country which has lead the world

in the pictorial art since the death of
Florence, we are taking into our hands
the destiny of painters and sculptors.
Of course we shall be accused of helping
painters without talent. Very well, we
shall help them this way. We shall do
our best for the great ones by doing
what we can for the rest.” Under the
government project, fifteen hundred
studios for the “poor” artists are to be

RECREATION

built before 1973 to replace an estima-
ted eight hundred which will be destroy-
ed in slum-clearance projects, plus
seven hundred more for upcoming
young artists. To encourage construc-
tion of suitable artists’ studios, the gov-
ernment will pay a $400 bonus to
contractors for each studio they include
in low-rent housing projects.

The Aztec League
A MAJOR SPORTS ARENA where pre-
Naismith “basketball” reigned as
a sport of kings has been unearthed by
archaeologists in the Valley of Mexi-
co. Dr. H. B. Nicholson and David
Grove, archaeologists at the University
of California in Los Angeles, recently
explored a site of this ancient hoop
sport, a favorite of Aztec rulers. The
site, known as Ixtapaluca Viejo, is sit-
uated east of Mexico City. Its ballcourt
is the first to be discovered in the Val-
ley of Mexico, although every sizable
town had at least one court when the
Spaniards came.

The sport was known as ollamaliztli
and the court on which it was played
was called tlachtli or tlachco. The game
had elements of basketball, soccer, and
handball. It was played with a solid
rubber ball just smaller than a volley-
ball. Players were not permitted to
use hands or feet in handling the ball
but batted the ball around with elbows,
hips, and knees. They often wore leath-
er elbow, knee, and hip pads for pro-
tection.

Stone rings projected vertically from
a wall on either side of a I-shaped

court. Climax of the game was that in-‘

frequent occasion when a player was
able to sock the ball through the ring,
or h00p, of the opponent, entitling him
to all the spectators’ clothing.

The sport, played on elaborate ma-
sonry courts, was highly organized
among the Aztecs by the time the Span-
iards came. Montezuma, famed Aztec
emperor, was a skilled player, and each
Aztec ruler had his own “stable” of
subsidized athletes. Today, the game

survives only in a degenerate form in
western Mexico.

Art Fete

LANDSCAPE PAINTERS DAY, held
in Los Angeles this summer in—
cluded an outdoor art festival and a

OCTOBER, 1964.

series of demonstrations. Participating
artists included Emile Hall, president,
Los Angeles County Employees Art
Club; Milfor Zornes, president, Otis
Art Institute Alumni Association; and
Walt Allan Smith. Demonstrations were
given infuse of oils, watercolors, stone,
wood, animal horns, and iron.

Study and Ski
L AST WINTER sixty-five hundred Pari-

sian school children traveled by
Special train to winter resorts in the
Alps where, in classes de neige (snow

THE LOCKER
IS ONLY

AS GOOD
As THE
LOOK

And only COIN-LOK gives you all

classes), they continued their studies
with their regular teachers in the morn-
ing and enjoyed winter sports (with
other teachers) in the afternoon. Par-
ents paid minimum charges for trans-
portation and for food and lodging at
the resort.

Students Run Children’s Camp
NEARLY five hundred city children

got their first close look at the
great outdoors this summer as guests of

students at the University of Californ-
ia’s Berkeley campus. Youngsters
from cities in Alameda and Contra

 

these lock reliability features.

TROUBLE-FREE PERFORMANCE. Only Coin-Lok provides the job-tested
Selectomatic Lock, patented, exclusive—most reliable lock In_the field
—-all stainless, no plastic substitutes! Thousands of locks In use—-

millions of users annually.

FRY-PROOF LOCATION. Away from the door! We recessour Selectomatic
Locks in the adjacent channel wall, inside double-thick steel for full

security. No pilferage problem!

FACTORY KEY CONTROL. Selectomatic protection is built-in and factory
controlled—keys not available on the open market.

OWNER ADJUSTABILITY. Selectomatic Locks are quickly and easily
owner-adjustable for use with nickels, dimes, quarters, tokens, or as corn
refund. You don’t change locks to change policy—ever!

  
 
 
   
   
   
     
 

 

See Our Exhibit
BOOTH N0. 76

46th National Recreation Congress

Deauville Hotel
Miami Beach, Florida
October 4-7, 1964

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

Check the facts -—ask any Coin-Lok Owner!

A subsidiary of
AMERICAN LOCKER CO., INC.

Illi

COIN-LOK SYSTEMS, INC.

Dept. 510, Jones & Gifford Ave.
Jamestown, N.Y., P.0. Box 1000

Please send, COIN-LOK information. and
specifications.

 .
Address .. .

383

Costa counties spent ten days in the
rugged North Coast area at Cal Camp
run and paid for by Cal students.

All the traditional camp activities—-
from handicrafts to overnight hikes——
were included in the fourth annual Cal
Camp which has grown from a hundred
children in its first year. This year’s
site was the Berkeley YMCA camp on
the Gualala River. Fifty Cal students
served without pay as camp staff, from
Director George Phillips of Berkeley
down to helpers in the kitchen. During
the school year, campus activities, such

 

as Spring Sing and the Ugly Man Con-
test, help raise the $10,000 needed to
make Cal Camp go.

Cal students lead the more intrepid
city youngsters on hikes over steep,
wooded hills to campouts. There, around
an open fire, each camper cooks his
dinner, then enjoys songs and stories
as night falls, finally to sleep in a bed-
roll under the stars. Popular with Cal
students, as well as young campers, Cal
Camp staff jobs always have a surplus
of volunteers, despite cutting into the
summer job period. Camp staff was ex-

LET THE PRESIDENT OF GAME-TIME HELP YOU
PLAN YOUR “IMAGINEERED” PLAYGROUND!

it -.

 

it - 

He has had scale models built of all Game-Time's lmagineered
playground eQUipment. Simply send Bob Wormser a dimensioned 
sketch of your playground and the approximate number and age
range of children that will use the area. He will carefully plan for
the best utilization of space and equipment, actually construct your
playground in miniature, and send you a 16” x 20" photo layout.
You, your park or school board, will be able to see exactly how your

    

("I 

proposed playground will look. i. Z.
This exclusive Game-Time service is available to you free. Bob 0  "
Wormser is only as close as the phone. Call him collect. Area Code . - ' ' f
517. 542-2345 or write to ask about free photo«layout playground  
planning service. - \

WRITE FOR 1965 LITERATURE SHOWING EXCITING. NEW IQ” “Ell

“lMAGINEERED” GAME-TIME PRODUCTS!

GAME-TIME, INC-

616 JON ESVILLE ROAD

LlTCHFlELD. MICHIGAN

SUBSIDIARY OF SIMPSON MANUFACTURING CO.

See Us At:

384-

Booth 39-56 NRA Convention. MiamI. Flonda

Booth 32 AIPE Show. Houston. Texas

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

panded this year to include junior coun-

selors from high schools in Alameda
and Berkeley.

\Vheeling Along

Social Security beneficiary Paul R.
“Pep” Kepner, aged sixty-eight, trav-
eled two thousand miles by bicycle from
his Houston, Texas home to visit the
New York World’s Fair. He was feted
by officials at the Social Security Ex-
hibit at the United States Pavilion. Av-
eraging well over a hundred miles daily
on his 171/2-day trip, he made stop-
overs at Washington, D.C.; Baltimore,
Maryland; and his birthplace at Mil-
lersburg, Pennsylvania. A former pro-
fessor of music, he was musical director
of the Jazz Singer starring Al Jolson.
Mr. Kepner now is active in spreading
his gospel of physical fitness for the
aged and vows “I’ll reach a hundred
years riding a bicycle.”

Racing to One Hundred

A transatlantic race from Bermuda
to Denmark in June 1966, is being
planned by the Royal Danish Yacht
Club and the Scandinavian Ocean Rac-
ing Committee to celebrate the club’s
one hundredth anniversary. Henry B.
Du Pont of Wilmington, Delaware, has

been appointed chairman of the race
committee.

Jottings on the Cuff

° A reference reading list on various
aspects of aging entitled “The Harvest
Years” was prepared and presented as

a public service by the Las Vegas, Ne-
vada, Recreation Department in coop-

eration with the Las Vegas Public Li-
brary.

o The world’s only sanctuary for bald
eagles is on Mt. Johnson Island in Penn-
sylvania.

0 There’s no evidence that any fish has
been lured to a hook by the sartorial
elegance of the fisherman involved.
However, The New Fisherman’s Ency-
clopedia (Stackpole Books) cautions on
going overboard on white and bright
colors and loud patterns. The colors
probably mean nothing to the fish, but
the patterns and'contrasts make sud-
den moves more noticeable, and this is
a sure way to discourage even a nibble.

RECREATION

AS WE GO TO PRESS

 

) SIGNIFICANT LEGISLATION. President
Lyndon Johnson has signed four bills
with far-reaching implications for the
recreation field. These are the Wilder-
ness Bill (S 4-Public Law 88-577), the
Land and Water Conservation Bill
(HR 3846-Public Law 88-578), the Na-
tional Council of Arts Bill (HR 9586,
S 2376), and the Anti-poverty Program
and Assistance Bill ( S 2642-Public Law
88-452).

In signing the Wilderness and Land
and Water Conservation measures, the
President invited a number of guests to
witness the occasion, among them
Joseph Prendergast, executive director
of the National Recreation Association.
The President presented Mr. Prender-
gast with one of the pens he used.

The Land and Water Conservation
Fund is a pay-as-you-go measure for the
long-term acquisition of outdoor rec-
reation facilities. Grants are to be made
for federal, state, and local land acquisi-
tions. The fund is expected to produce
$2,000,000,000 in a decade.

The Wilderness Bill sets aside 9,100,-
000 acres of forest and mountain fast-
ness to be forever protected from the
encroachments of civilization. The law
culminates a seven-year battle between
conservationists and the mining, lum-
ber, and grazing interests.

The National Arts Council act marks
the first time that federal legislation to
encourage the arts has been enacted in-
to law. The council, with a twentysfive
member panel, will function in the fields
of music, drama, dance, folk art, litera-
ture, architecture, painting, sculpture,
and industrial and fashion design. It
will have a full-time chairman who will
receive $21,000 a year.

The federal Antipoverty Program es-
tablishes an Office of Economic Oppor-
tunity, Job Corps, Domestic Peace
Corps, work-study and work-training
plans for youths, and assistance for 10-
cal programs.

) A CAMPAIGN To INTEREST EVERYONE
who wants to preserve the beauties of
this land is now under way and deserves
the cooperation of every local commu-
nity. This is the American Landmarks
Celebration, “Save Our Heritage.” Its
gala sendoff during American Land-
marks Week (September 28-October 4)
will be continued through November
30. The celebration is a part of UNES-
CO’s International Campaign for Mon-
uments and is sponsored by the Na-
tional Trust for Historic Preservation.
Its goal is to develop and improve tech-
nical and legal measures for the protec-
tion, preservation, and restoration of
cultural property and to safeguard the

OCTOBER, 1964

 

—-— SAMUEL S. FISHZOHN —-

Sam Fishzohn, man of many friends
among them many people in the rec-
reation field—a familiar figure at na-
tional meetings, veteran of forty years
in social work, is dead. SO eager and
full of life was he that it is hard to be-
lieve. Since 1945 and until his recent
retirement at the age of sixty-five last
February, Mr. Fishzohn was director of
youth services of the American Jewish
Committee and,in this capacity,worked
with many youth organizations. Before
joining AJ C, he had been for eighteen
years director of the Educational Alli-
ance of New York, one of the nation’s
largest and oldest community centers in
New York City. Upon retiring, he and
Mrs. Fishzohn embarked upon an ex-
tended trip abroad, during which he
was stricken with his last illness. Sam
Fishzohn will be greatly mourned and
widely missed.

 

 

beauty and character of the landscape.
Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson, honorary
chairman of the celebration, says, “The
celebration will awaken and renew an
interest and pride in the greatness of
our vast inheritance and the vital neces-
sity of its preservation in this changing
world. It is a privilege and responsi-
bility of each American to know and
appreciate his rich heritage and to in-
sure that generations yet to come will

COMING EVENTS

YWCA World Fellowship Week, No-
vember 8-14. Sponsored by the National

Board of YWCA Of the U.S.A., 600 Lex-
ington Avenue, New York City.

17th Annual Meeting, Gerontological
Society, October 29-31, Leamington Hotel,
Minneapolis. For further information,
write to Mrs. Marjorie Adler, Geronto-
logical Society, 660 S. Euclid, St. Louis,
63110.

3rd Annual Conference, American

Association of Homes for the Aged,
November 9-11, Stellar Hilton Hazel,

Washington, D.C. Conference theme: The
Spectrum of Care for the Elderly. For

further information, Write to Lester Davis,

American Association of Homes for the
Aged, 49 West 45th Street, New York

10036.

National Stamp Collecting Week, No-
vember 16-22. Sponsored by American
Stamp Dealers Association, 116 Nassau

Street, New York City.

70th Annual National Conference on
Government, November 18-21, Sheraton-
Palace Hotel, San F ranci3co. Conference
theme: The Urban Future—Challenge and
Opportunity. For further information,
write to Alfred Willoughby, Executive Di-

rector, National Municipal League, 47 East
68211 Street, New York 10021.

have this same opportunity.”

Many national organizations are be-
hind this campaign, and Joseph Pren-
dergast, executive director of the Na-
tional Recreation Association, is on its
steering committee. Secretary of the In-
terior Stewart L. Udall, co-chairman of
the celebration, has received, among
hundreds of comments, the following
telegram from famed conductor Leon-
ard Bernstein: “Every time I travel any-
where in the United States I am struck
anew by the extravagant beauty of our
country . . . But I am struck with equal
ferocity by the rate at which this beau-
ty is being violated. Natural glory is
disappearing before our eyes, and man-
made beauties with historical patina
are being destroyed. I hope that this
celebration will be a turning point in
our senseless ravaging of a beautiful
land.”

If you want to help publicize the cele-
bration in your state, county, or com-
munity, a poster and pamphlet are avail-
able from the headquarters of American
Landmarks Celebration, 815 17th
Street, N.W., Washington, DC. 20006.
The posters cost five cents apiece or
twenty for a dollar; the pamphlet costs
fifty cents a hundred. Also ask for the
“Suggested Ideas for Community Ac-
tion” and their list of films.

} FITNESS ACHIEVEMENT AWARDS. An-
other Awards Program for Physical Fit-
ness Leadership has just been an-
nounced by the United States Junior
Chamber of Commerce and the Stand-
ard Packaging Corporation. Eligible
are men and women, professional or
volunteer, who are “organizers and/or
leaders of recreation centers, of clubs,
writers and people in business or gov-
ernment who have made outstanding
contributions during the year to fitness
programs.”

For details and nomination forms,
apply to local or state J aycees or write
to the U. S. Junior Chamber of Com-
merce National Headquarters, Boulder
Park, Box 7, Tulsa 2, Oklahoma.

I" AMATEUR ATHLETICS in North Amer-
ica will boom during the next four years
as competition among the United States,
Canada, and Mexico reaches a new
high, according to Colonel Donald F.
Hull (USA, Ret.) , executive director of
the Amateur Athletic Union. He ob-
serves that the Pan American Games in
Winnipeg, Canada, in 1967 and the
Olympic Games in Mexico City in 1968
are major factors helping to accelerate
the rapidly expanding international
amateur sports exchanges among the
three countries.

385

} A GROUP OF 150 qualified photogra-
pher-ambassadors—chosen with an eye
to their sense of service and selected for
geographical coverage of the United
States—will fiy to East Africa next sum-
mer, under the auspices of the Friends
Of Africa in America in Tarrytown,
New York, to study first hand the wild-
life conservation problems there. On
their return they will share with their
fellow Americans a situation that con-
cerns people in this country more ur-
gently than they presently realize.

THINCS YOU SHOULD KNOW

 

) PHOTOGRAPHS NEEDED. The follow-
ing categories of photographs are need-
ed for use in Recreation Magazine:

 

Vote . . . and the choice is yours!
Don’t vote . . . and the choice

is theirs!
Register . . . or you have no choice!

THE LIFEBLOOD of our democratic
system is the participation of citi-
zens in electing those who run our gov-
ernment. And every vote counts. Do all
the people you serve know this?

The American Heritage Foundation,
with the cooperation of eighty other
agencies, of which the National Recre-
ation Association is one, is sponsoring
the 1964 Non-Partisan “Register and
Vote” campaign. It is not too late to
cooperate. Check the list below, to see
where your recreation department fits
in . . . especially if you have a bond
issue on the ballot.

HOW-TO-DO-IT SUGGESTIONS

These are based on proven methods
for your community “Registration”
drive and local support of the “Get-Out-
the-Vote” campaigns:

FOR ORGANIZATIONS

* Letters to members on importance
of voting.

Vote reminders in mailings.
Announcements at meetings.
Pledge-to-Vote cards.

Postage meter messages.

Posters in meeting rooms and halls.
Editorials in publications.
Transportation to polls.

*******

BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY

* Vote rallies.

* Voting information booths.

* Literature in reading racks.

* Reminders in newspaper, radio and
TV.

* Vote messages in pay envelopes, bills,
et cetera.

* Florists: offer flowers to early voters.

* Laundries, dry cleaners, dairies: re-
minders with pickups and deliveries.

* Gas stations, drive-in-movies, park-

386

possible cover photographs, modern
playground equipment, holiday pro-
grams, teenagers, performing arts ac-
tivities, arts and crafts, family recrea-
tion, games and hobbies, sports, mod-
ern buildings and facilities. If you can
send us photographs for our picture li-
brary for use as, if, and when needed,
please let us have them. Please type on
a separate sheet Of paper and paste on
the bottom of each: identification of
subject, name Of sender, necessary
credit.

} WATER CRISIS. America is facing a
water crisis of increasing gravity as
growing population and expanding in-
dustrial needs tax water resources of
steadily diminishing capacity. The

CALL to ACTION

ing lots: distribute bumper strips.

* Theaters: vote slides on screen;
posters in lobby.

* Hotels: posters in lobbies and ele-
vators.

* Stores: window and counter dis-
plays; reminders in packages and
mailings.

* Transportation companies: posters
in stations, terminals; signs on
trucks.

RELIGIOUS GROUPS

* Pulpit announcements.

* Reminders in publications.
* Bulletin board messages.

* Discussion groups.

VETERANS

* Parades and rallies. (There’s nothing
like a parade to stir up campaign
excitement.)

SCHOOLS AND YOUTH GROUPS

* Mock elections.
* Essay, art, and slogan contests.

* Pupils take vote reminders home.

* Halloween vote messages delivered to
every home.

* Teenagers accompany parents to
polls to observe voting process.

WOMEN

* Coming-of-Age parties for first voters
and new residents.

* Votemobile: explaining vote ma-
chines, sample ballots, et cetera.

* Set up information booths and dis-
plays in banks, hotels, restaurants,

et cetera.
* Sponsor candidates’ forums.

RADIO AND TV

* Use American Heritage Foundation
Advertising Council kits.

* Debates between candidates (or local
celebrities) .

* “Get-Out-the-Vote” telethon on Elec-
tion Eve.

* Taped vote appeals by local celebri-
ties.

problem is especially acute in the Pacific
Southwest where economic growth is
already menaced by falling water tables
and inadequate streamfiow and water
storage. These facts are revealed by a
National Reclamation Association in a
study, Water and the West. Single copies
are available on request from the asso-
ciation, 897 National Press Building,
Washington, DC. 20004.

) SANTA CLAUS FOR PRESIDENT? What
does Mrs. Santa think? Can five million
children be wrong? What do children
in other countries think of the idea?
A very timely, jolly playlet for your
Christmas program is Santa Claus for
President by Helen Louise Miller, avail-
able from Plays, Inc., 8 Arlington Street,
Boston 16, for fifty cents a copy.

 

* “Live” coverage of vote rallies.

* Vote reminders by disc jockeys and
during station breaks.

* Programs on close elections, human-

interest stories and former candi-
dates.

NEWSPAPERS, MAGAZINES, PUBLICATIONS

* Use American Heritage kits.

* Publish sample ballots, editorials,
cartoons, et cetera.

* Special “Get-Out-the-Vote” issue or
supplement.

* Publish interviews, human-interest
stories, vote ads, educational how-
to-vote materials, and daily election

Count-down Box (“3 Days Till ‘E’
Day”).

ELECTION DAY ACTIVITIES

* All committees vote early.

* All polling places properly manned

by both parties.

Church bells, factory whistles, sirens

—-every hour on the hour.

Transportation to the polls.

Youth groups work as baby sitters.

Volunteers assist aged and disabled.

Distribute “I Have Voted” tags as

voters leave the polls.

Radio, TV stations keep reminding

people to vote.

* Volunteers at polls check names of
registered voters who haven’t voted;
pass on to “telephone brigade.”

* “Telephone brigade” calls to regis-
tered voters.

* Check that vote counting is witnessed
by both parties.

SEE YOU AT THE POLLS!

* For additional information and ma-

terials write to The American Herit-
age Foundation, 11 W. 42nd Street,
New York 10036.

. . . Sink or swim, live or die, sur-
vive or perish, I give my hand and
heart to this vote.—Daniel \Veh-
ster.

**** *-

*-

RECREATION

WHAT IS A PARK.

A housewife and mother of three expresses her thoughts about a park

* Mrs. James Durbin

PARK is a grassy spot with a fence around it in the
A midst of the concrete and brick world of the city. It

‘ is a parent’s desire to create a safe and wholesome
place for his child to play. It is a place where we send our
children for fun, for character building, and sometimes
just to get them out of our hair.

A community without a park longingly yearns for one,
while a community with one gratefully takes it for granted.
We are the fortunate ones with a good park within wander-
ing distance of our youngsters. Yes, we are the fortunate
ones who have, but only half take or give.

A park can be much more if people will wake up to its
possibilities. Mistakenly, many people think a park is only
for the young, and, so, a park becomes a place where two
young directors battle. frantically to meet the recreation
needs of a hundred or so children.

A park can and should belong to all the people in the
community. It can be the hub, the common meeting place
of the neighborhood.

A park can be a place where we meet our neighbors;

where we take our babies for an airing; where we supervise

MRS. DURBIN is chairman of the committee that prepares the
Idle Hour Park Newsletter for the Recreation and Park
Department in Lexington, Kentucky.

 '3? ‘  

 

'31-. ‘_ _ a, r -. if- --:.....\—.~4..a.t_¢v“v, -“-.,-. Mug-r, _.

the activities of our young. It can be a place where we can
stroll leisurely on the good earth beneath us and survey the
uncluttered sky above us. It can be a place of companion-
ship and recreation or even of solitude and release from the
tensions of a busy day.

A PARK can be a place to read a book; to discuss poli-
tics; to play checkers; to pitch horseshoes; or even
to recapture a glimpse of our fast vanishing childhood. It
can be a place of contentment for the very young, the al-
most young, and the not so young.

If we have a little vision and determination, a park can be
the place we go for a cool swim on summer afternoons, the
place for a picnic supper, or the setting for a bridge party.

I can almost hear you laughing as you say, “Oh, but
that isn’t our park.” I ask you only to consider that a
park is what you make it. It takes only two people on a
park bench to encourage companionship, only four for a
game of bridge, and only a few watchful parents to relieve
the burden of constant supervision and leave our park di-
rectors free to organize games and activities. And, it takes
only planning and work to have that swimming pool.

Without the support of the community a park is nothing;
with support, it can be a place of pleasure and enjoyment
for all. I’ll see you at the park! #-

D
Q

.- ---;;A_;;r__;\.._y..........-. _ $11, a n_--" -‘ ' '

A park can be a place of contentment for very young, the almost young, and
the not so young. A park should belong to all the people in the community.

OCTOBER, 1964

387

HEYDAY
IN THE
PARK

W orld-famous Vancouver park

celebrates its seventy-fifth

anniversary with a historic fete

and a new facility

 

This luturiant cream broom bush, along with the spring
cherry blossoms, waving daffodils, wide velvety lawns, and
towering timber, make the thousand-acre natural park a
true paradise for photographers, artists, and flower lover”

   

King penguins, brought from Falkland Islands in
1952, produced an egg in 1955, now breed annually.

 

E WWN‘VWWMMM

Lord Stanley welcomes with
open arms the “people of
all colors, creeds and cus-
toms for all time” to the fa-
mous park named for him.

The park’s first ranger,
Henry Aviso, designed the
first garden, cut trails, and
constructed rustic bridges.
His wife started a park zoo.

Eric Lindsay

SURREY with a pink fringe on top brought Lord
A Stanley back to Vancouver’s Stanley Park in May

to rededicate its thousand acres to “the use and en-
joyment of peoples of all colors, creeds, and customs for all
time.” The event was a highlight of the park’s seventy-fifth
anniversary year. The one-time governor-general of Canada
-—who donated his name to the National Hockey League
Stanley Cup as well as the park—was impersonated by Van-
couver hotelman Frank Baker, wearing, with great dignity,
a stage beard and a turn-of-the-century formal outfit. He
was driven down West Georgia Street behind two prancing
palominos in the pink-fringed surrey, doffing his hat to sur-
prised but admiring citizens and leaving one group of work-
men standing with mouths agape. Four shining horses of
Stanley Park’s mounted detail of city police escorted the
honorable gentleman. Colorful anniversary banners cari-
caturing the park’s bears, penguins, monkeys, peacocks,
flowering trees and firs lined the route.

In the Stanley Park pavilion, with Park Board Chairman
George Wainborn playing host, “Lord Stanley” joined
Mayor William Rathie, City Archivist Major J. S. Matthews,
and fifty of the elderly men and women who had lived in
Vancouver when the park was first dedicated in 1889. After-
ward, a thousand children from West End Vancouver
schools, enjoying a special half holiday for the occasion,
joined the fifty-piece Killarney Secondary School band in
entertaining His Excellency and the pioneers and digni-

MR. LINDSAY is public information opicer for the Board of
Parks and Public Recreation in Vancouver, British Co-
lumbia.

OCTOBER, 1964

taries with music, games, and gymnastics on the stage of
Malkin Bowl.
“Lord Stanley” spoke of his first visit to the park seventy-

five years before, recalling the rickety old bridge into the
park, now replaced by a wide and smoothly paved causeway
off West Georgia Street. Lost Lagoon, he noted, then merely
a muddy tidal flat, was now locked in by the causeway. He
commended the park board and staff for their careful and
imaginative development of the park and urged that it be
guarded as jealously over the coming seventy-five years for
the enjoyment of all in the year 2039.

OUTSTANDING windup of the rededication events was
the driving of the last spike on the new three-quarter-
mile-long Stanley Park miniature railway in an area where
a grove of towering fir trees was flattened by Typhoon Frieda
in 1962. Mayor Rathie and Board Chairman Wainborn
swung gold-headed sledge hammers to drive home a little
gold spike to conclude the two—year, $50,000 design and
construction project. Then, the quaint old-fashioned steam
engine—powered by gas—pulled into Stanley Park Junction
and official guests joined excited pioneers for the train’s
inaugural run.

With its simulated steam whistle tooting and its bell clang-
ing, the seventy-passenger train spent the rest of the after-
noon taking an estimated fifteen hundred boys, girls, and
grOWUps on free trips past a prospector’s cabin, a fire rang-
er’s lookout, an Indian encampment, over a little rustic
bridge, along the shore of a man-made lake and across the
lake on a l40-foot-long trestle into a windowed sixty-foot-
long snowshed and on through the blackness of a sixty-foot-
long tunnel, around by a view through the trees of Burrard
Inlet————Vancouver’s harbor—and back into the station. The
trip takes about four minutes. Pioneers and other luncheon
guests received railway engineer caps and “gold-plated”
railroad spikes as mementos. The train quickly captured
the fancy of park lovers and one weekend an estimated ten

thousand persons of all ages rode the rails of the miniature

line.
The recorded history of Stanley Park can be said to stem

Continued on Page 422

 

_ 4‘ '_ z I m . , v .. A. . j
m -. . z r 4.“ . .

 -- ., .- 4:» ‘ *

 x. a“: .. _ «- . a». ,,

The'original Lumbermen’s Arch was erected in. 1913 by the
Lumbermen’s Association in honor of the visit of the Duke
of Connaught. It was replaced by this massive arch of logs.

389

 

A bank president
points out that our
unpredictable world puts

a premium on versatility

David Rockefeller

I I ISTORICALLY,

America’s eco-
nomic success has
been rooted in the
long-term increase
in both output and
Since the
turn of the century,
output in the private economy has mul-
tiplied sevenfold while working hours
have dropped twenty-five percent. In
the years ahead, the trend toward tak-
ing part of our productivity gains in
the form of greater leisure is likely to
continue. To me, the most exciting part
of this prospect is that it lifts the great
national resource of leisure into an en-
tirely new dimension. But, like all re-
sources, it will be only as valuable as
we make it—through careful planning,
wise use, and intelligent conservation.

In a sense, we are in the position of
Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes when
he boarded a train in Boston and then
mislaid his ticket. Recognizing him, the
conductor said: “Why, Your Honor,
I’m sure that when Massachusetts’
leading citizen finds his ticket, he will
send it in.”

“Mr. Conductor,” replied Justice
Holmes gravely, “the question is not

leisure.

 

 

MR. ROCKEFELLER is president of the
Chase Manhattan Bank, New York
City. This material was presented at
the Financial Executives Institute held
in Detroit in February.

 

‘Where is my ticket?’ but ‘Where am
I going?’ ”

In facing up to the challenge of
leisure, we, as a nation, must determine
where we are‘going and how we expect
to get there. In considering the direc-
tion of future development, there are
three prime uses of leisure which merit
our special attention:

The first is the opportunity for self-
fulfillment. This concept for “self” is
preeminently important in our society,
for it is the value attached to the indi-
vidual which decisively distinguishes
the free from the authoritarian system.
This is not only a question of the indi-
vidual’s exercising free choice as to
who will lead him, at what ob he will
work, and where he will live: it is, per-
haps most vitally, freedom to secure un-
committed time and to direct its use.

Of course, not all individuals in this
country give their free time to contem-
plation and self-improvement. We have
no shortage of critics who point to ac-
tivities far afield from any cultural or
intellectual endeavors. We should be
encouraged, though, that such criticism
exists and finds voice. This proves that
we have elevated our sights, that we
have expanded the eXpectations which
more and more people might reasonably
entertain, that our occasional impa-
tience with a few is born primarily of
our higher hopes for all of our fellow
citizens.

THOSE HOPES are certainly not with-
out foundation. Even a quick scan-
ning of statistics shows that many of
them are well on the way to fruition.
Comparing the years 1955 and 1962, we
see that consumer Spending for books
rose more than any other type of rec-

NEW NATIONAL

33m

RECREATION

reation expenditure. Ticket sales for
theater and opera went up sixty-eight
percent, more than twice the increase
for all spectator sports. More than half
the world’s professional symphony or-
chestras are now in the United States,
and most of them enjoy a wide and
consistent patronage. Last year, six
million people visited New York City’s
Metropolitan Museum of Art.

Not only are cultural Opportunities
abundantly available in this country,
but more-«and more people are coming
to have the time to take advantage of
them. Moreover, they are stimulated
to the exercise of their own creativity.
Some twenty-six thousand book titles
were published last year, representing
an enormous investment of talent and
an awesome outpouring of energy. In
New York City, no fewer than fifty
thousand people are creatively engaged
in the graphic arts. Many of them are,
of course, part-time painters, but some
two thousand will show at local gal-
leries during the current season. Across
the land, well over thirty-five million
amateur musicians have taken up in-
struments in a massive effort that is
surely good for the soul, even though in
some cases it may be rather hard on the
ear!

THE SECOND opportunity that greater
leisure can provide is the enhance-
ment of our capacity to do our obs. In
our swiftly changing business environ-
ment, no one can forsee precisely what
problems will have to be resolved in
the future. Whatever they are, they will
call for intelligence, imagination, re-
sourcefulness, and judgment — for
these qualities never become obsolete.

So we should use our periods of leisure
to develop the whole man.

In this regard, all of us might take
a lesson from those whose work encom-
passes life in its entirety and who have
learned the practical uses of uncommit-
ted time. The eye of the painter is ever
alert to form and color. The sculptor
looks for shape and contour in all about
him. The dancer notes the gracefulness
of a bird in flight, while the writer picks
up and stores the little nuances of
speech to which he is exposed. All of
them recognize that the achievements
of work are not isolated from the ex-
periences of life.

More and more of our jobs demand
a similar attitude. Increasingly, the
tools we use are not just machines de-
signed to accomplish some specific task,
but equipment adaptable to a wide
range of operations. Their ultimate em-
ployment will be limited only by our
ingenuity. For worker and manager
alike, the one who advances rapidly to-
morrow will be the one who finds new
tasks to set for the tools, new and di-
verse ways in which they may be di-
rected, novel uses of material and more
efficient methods of production. In the
long term, it is he, not the assembly line,
who will set the pace.

NOWHERE are the potentialities of
sophisticated equipment more evi-
dent than in the exciting area of com-
puters. They have helped remove the
staggering quantitative burden of col-
lecting and correlating data and estab-
lishing patterns of information on
which predictions can be used. Indeed,
they have not only relieved us of these
chores which formerly absorbed so

RESOURCE

OCTOBER, 1964

much time and labor, but they perform
them so much quicker and better, that
we may now venture into whole new
fields of activity closed to us a few
years ago. I doubt if there is a busi-
ness, profession or institution in the
United States today which does not
sense an urgent need for men who can
exploit more fully the promise of the
new technology. These men must have
a breadth and depth of judgment, a
vital and creative imagination, and a
frame of reference from their own in-
terest and experience which will per-
mit them to interpret facts and estab-
lish values.

The kind of men we are talking
about cannot be developed solely
through on-the-job training, nor can
they be force-fed the requisite knowl-
edge in a stipulated span of schooling.
We speak of minds that can be shaped
only through a lifetime of learnino'.
The enhancement of our capacity to
perform our jobs will, therefore, depend
to a major degree upon our willingness
to give some of our own time to it. It
will depend upon our nurturing broad
interests, reaching for ever wider
knowledge, seeking an ever larger cir-
cumference of experience. Ours must
be the voluntary decision to let our
curiosity extend beyond the limits of a
restricted specialization."

As John Gardner of the Carnegie
Corporation has pointed out in his
stimulating new book entitled Self
Renewal: “Education at its best will de-
velop the individual’s inner resources
to the point where he can learn—and
will want to learn—on his own. It will
equip him to cope with unforeseen chal-
lenges and to survive as a versatile in-
dividual in an unpredictable world. In-
dividuals so educated will keep the so-
ciety itself flexible, adaptive and in-
novative.”

OUR THIRD outstanding opportunity
is to deal more effectively with
the unfinished business of our society.
Through industrialization and urbani-
zation, we have created an enormously
complex community. As a result, in
solving some problems, we have created

391

others. In pushing boldly toward the
frontiers of the future, we threaten to
leave behind some chores of the pres-
ent day.

For many, greater longevity is still
a mixed blessing. There remain prob-
lems of health and housing, and the
difficult challenge of establishing for
the retired a meaningful and satisfying
place within a society of constant mo-
tion and change. This is not a new
condition, but the number of people
affected by it has increased so rapidly
that the search for answers takes on a
fresh urgency.

At the opposite end of the spectrum,
the problems of youth are baffling and
often dismaying. Some are ill-prepared
for the cultural environment found be-
yond the confines of their homes. Others
have early fallen behind in educational
pursuits and are now frightened by that
insecurity which threatens all who can-
not catch up.

These and many other problems are
not of our choosing, but they are of
our society’s making. They will never
be solved by experts alone, and the ex-
perts are the first to acknowledge this.
They cannot—indeed, they should not
——be relegated to the exclusive respon-
sibility of government. These are prob-
lems calling for action on a broad front
and for participation by the entire citi-
zenry. Unless we in the business com-
munity are personally concerned, un-
less we care deeply, unless we are pas-
sionately committed to a better life for
all, we shall bear witness to a society
which falls tragically short of its great
promise. In the past, it seemed almost
hopeless to combat problems of these
dimensions. But we now have a power-

ful new weapon—a growing measure
of uncommitted time.

CONSIDER, as a concrete example,
the problem of high-school drop-
outs. One out of every three students
entering high school fails to graduate.
Many of them drop out for economic
reasons. This is a problem that our
city school systems are gravely con-
cerned about—and rightly so. But we

as businessmen can also help.

At the Chase Manhattan Bank, a
number of men are devoting a consider-
able portion of their outside time to
working with youngsters. They are try-
ing to channel the youngsters’ activi-
ties along constructive lines, and, above
all, encourage them to continue their
schooling. To reinforce these efforts,
the bank recently launched a program
in collaboration with the New York
City Board of Education. lt hired twen-
ty high-school seniors, listed by their
schools as “potential dropouts” because
of family economic circumstances. It
assigned these young people to after-
noon work with the understanding that
they will complete their high-school ed-
ucation. So far, both parties have been
highly pleased with the arrangement.

Admittedly, this represents only a
very modest beginning. But think of
the impact if every business in the
United States were to take an interest
in helping these students who might
otherwise never complete even a high-
school education. If the program were
successful, one result would be a new
sense of direct responsibility on the
part of the students themselves. There
should be a measurable decline in uve-
nile delinquency—and later, in adult

crime—~50 costly for the entire com-
munity. The trend of mounting appro-
priations for counseling and assistance
to dropouts might finally be reversed.

It is in the long term, however, that
the true gain of properly educated and
properly oriented citizens would be-
come most apparent. Think of the tre-
mendous costs of unemployment com-
pensation, welfare programs, projects
of retraining, relocation, and rehabili-
tation. More positively, we would
secure for our society an untapped
abundance of talent, ability, and energy
which is now undeveloped or tragically
misdirected. There would evolve a basic
change in attitudes. The youngsters,
themselves, many of whom now regard
society as an alien and hostile force,
would see our stake in them as evidence
of our good faith. Is it too much to
hope that such a display of goodwill
would be reciprocated?

“The true test of a civilization,”
Emerson remarked, “is not the census,
nor the size of the cities, nor the crops,
but the kind of man the country turns
out.” Our America of tomorrow will
surely be judged by what becomes of
the youth of today.

Let our objective be the creation of
a society in which all can contribute to
earning this dividend of uncommitted
time and using it for the improvement
of ourselves as individuals, the enhance-
ment of our capacities to perform
meaningful work, and the completion of
those social tasks which still remain
undone. If we do this, we need not fear
for the kind of man the country will
turn out. Nor need we be ashamed of
the kind of men we ourselves turned

out to be. 

“These new concepts in coin-operated locks set standards by which
all other locks will be measured for years to come."

They are so revolutionary new in engineering concept, even the expert
copiers have not yet found a way to copy them.

They are the authoritative way to turn your checking loss operation
into a profitable one. Write today. . .

Sentinel, Finest Name in the World of Lockers, Loudonville, Ohio.

 

392

\\ lu-ll “Illng to out advertisers please mention RECREATION.

RECREATION

Making

Headlines

A recreation agency finds that “public service”

community newspaper—for fun and profit

Joe A. Cropley

H

“mm was»; 
‘ 4 {W 9y: zm
imam, in mm” m”
 *ngmw V mum'-

‘9'

3th rs

Wxn‘ ,

mime

a.

£3; mag-rm!) K5133 ,'

water safety muse
{eater patrol classes July n M.

m Managua twin» sewMWQEWWkéK

“:5; am at? 4AM WSW

umuwwm ,

augmmmnmwkm‘ Wmmwm
2.99%kava N ks$wm3<¢yn¥iw~§
em Maximil- WWM thwgm {mm W at 9&3 

amazes «sawmka

~:‘- ’ ‘W "‘v w H
was. ma :4 MW “3 .3. “germ 5334 m we ‘

tweak NW um
, - MN 3w my.
“rate, We him.
\ *W K56 K3 gm”,
1W1): an»; m
w M rm, “WM 900M ,
witmnms‘swb NET“: " gran 'thk’tmrm
, 321.3 a»: 9:334:53 army  “gins W a...
. W y‘g“? 3.. ’ ~ - a

3“ we

“gnaw;
«as «as new 24“”

_ a Man,“ ‘33,, 9»: mm 3*: 3* mm“ W to
mm, (aw wig: as w my, mmak “gm ’EW. 3: a my $213 at m 3

W

imam-m w 9am am a: saw the an» m News: a e5 ’3“:

Maurie”; mmmhwm

.4 x 5

IF THE FOLKS in
Deep River,
Ontario, don’t like
what they read in
their local news-
paper, they have
no one to blame

 

but themselves. For
not only do they make the news, they
also write it and publish it. The North
Renfrew Times is both a service and an
activity of the Deep River Community
Association Incorporated, the coordi-
nating agency for all recreation pro-
grams in the municipality. Once a give-
away news bulletin, this weekly news-
paper is now a full-fledged commercial

 

MR. CROPLEY is welfare supervisor for
Atomic Energy of Canada, Ltd. His
duties include serving as recreation di-
rector in Deep River, Ontario. For other

material by Mr. C ropley, see “Recreation
Out of Necessity,” RECREATION, Febru-

ary 1964. F or more on Deep River, see
“Winter Carnival,” February 1964.

OCTOBER, 1964.

use

- ; ‘gtmwgut’ftMMldm V
“iii”... 5 ,a: swim ‘WM *3; embme a gas \

was «23x3 WWW in w
‘l m whet

 

enterprise staiied by volunteers, both
paid and unpaid. A study of ten thou-
sand weekly newspapers from all over
the world, made by the University of
Southern Illinois Department of Jour-
nalism, found that the North Renfrew
Times is undoubtedly the only paper
to be produced in this manner . . . any-
where.

Deep River, built in the Canadian
bush country, on the Ottawa River, one
hundred and twenty miles northwest of
Ottawa, in 1944—45, was planned as the
residential area for a warborn, very
secret atomic-energy project. The sec-
recy of early postwar years no longer
exists, for Canada’s nuclear program is

aimed at the peaceful uses of atomic
energy.

Atomic research has brought world
fame to some Deep River citizens. To
many, however, this bustling Canadian
community is better known for its Snail

Watchers’ Club, its Whittling Club, and

other unusual byproducts of a pulsing

includes publishing the

program of leisure. From Deep River’s
early beginnings, there has been an
abundance of clubs and groups afiili-
ated with the Community Association.
At last count there were sixty-four. The
problems of communication among
such a large number of organizations
were solved in the early days by the
weekly distribution of a mimeographed
sheet called the Deep River Digest. This
“paper” often ran to five or six foolscap
pages and carried news about meetings,
births, how to walk on gravel and fire
the furnace, and movie programs, but
no editorials, advertising, jokes, or pic-
tures. Although it was strictly a throw-
away, the citizen treasured his Digest.
A missed issue resulted in a great out-
cry. The Digest became an important
and cherished weekly feature; in fact,
an institution in an isolated community.
This remarkable document was publish—
ed continuously for nine or ten years,
fifty-two times a year. The need for a
news media with paid advertising to
service the growing commercial market
became increasingly apparent as the
town expanded.

PLANNERS of Deep River estimated a
community of three thousand; how-
ever, relative success and expansion of
the atomic-energy field has pushed the
p0pulation figure to 5,438—2,925
adults and 2,513 children. Approxi-
mately forty percent of the adults are
university graduates, well in excess of
Canada’s national average of 3.3 per-
cent. Since eighty-five percent of the
claim metropolitan back-
grounds, urban recreation interests
must be emphasized. Extremes in tem-
perature——long, cold winters with lots

citizenry

of snow and short, hot summers—de-
mand varied recreation facilities; con—

Continued on Page 421
393

  
       
   
  
  

"-5. i”
95'; "l,
' ‘ n!!! w): .r I}; ': I- ‘I t- 0.}... I"..- LI ‘ - -1) ' J’:’/.- $9.."I’I.= If. awry}; 9-073") ‘a ’
s ‘ " . a ' . ‘ ' - ' . ’ c, .0 t. . I ' ' ' . t '
. W . 43—. . .1. t.. Q. .; . . .»&.€R.Queu ..M‘-*.Qn* ,.
-_- .- -2 1-2; x z 3913;" -=' 9‘31"”! [:2- 9. - '1 '13-]:- 172 $123.)!!! I- (45 7.2-2,“ 4 2" 4‘ "1.." a]:
\ .

 
  
  

:
4.

        
  
 
    
  
 

      



   

Q I.“  K . v ' I
n ' p” "5"" I "'h‘ I '1 '1" .
...' 1!,"1l1))’/f.  m ,l  ’03)
l - 7  I  ‘.o I ‘1‘ .
. _ V .11 - - _ .
‘ I; -
j . .

7.}? 5”. I) ,I
‘g”?!  _ a
47'

   

   

) ‘
' 3

- 94’2" wu‘ w -

.1: " art‘s-J'-

 
 

MULTIVLL
 '4‘

 
     

u IIT’ITT'ITW'T'HTI  

DLLAc H L15

L—p—m—D— ’- —-§ -4.-A--c—-—-——-

   
 

   
 

  
 
     
   
     
  

r ' §
1);" I
313‘;

A \

V-
N -
IIIIIII

LN“ 

.' '51-}5. g

, _/
' I “
"'""""— "'\—.-F' . . ,
' I. . . . o '. . ' I ' ' )‘I r
»‘I‘tnq/x'  .' 34
’ Monum‘ENTAL-(i-I d": ‘ ‘ 1
Tab ' ’)

  
           
 

 

" mm ‘L-v - A *LG'LL’“ .u; _. .. o u k * a a". '
Iv IMO.) '5 VII' ‘ IVH'VI |'°,\ .i.\l'.v.u.?.‘.lh . amantu A'JI'WK. . I 353‘ 1
.. I" 1 ’i J! [3." P I ' , J- y. 1' u I; .3 _ 3 ‘- ‘ I
. I— -.a ' ' ‘ ' ‘ . '\ 4
52.1w 2:. a)
 . n u 0 I
' “'4' I "_. I . I ' ' . ' 3 I i ‘
I 01:!!! ' I In:   I I I . - -._. ‘ I’,‘
‘0’.

- ‘ l p‘ ‘ ‘
CYHNASIUM I” V -_ ’ _ _ a,“
:  ‘  -'  f': 11.1.? - HOCKLY -'.- , 1'
. w - 0 "HIGH . '-.- ‘ -' JYLLVDALL  v“ I‘
I T  Q 0 ' o' ' - FILL): bALL '- ,' v.0
. I I SCHOOL- __ _ - 5OCCLI- :.  (U
‘4 . n'w ‘, .' . - - -' . . .'.- . .  . .
’2 |‘ I  "'u" Roar“ Auvnouun . I ' « L 1 - u} 
\ I I y ‘ ‘ . v 5 I.
‘ I . _ _ I A 1 ‘._ ‘ .
3'" b V§é . m. u,.m. an" 'm ‘J‘lhlh'n - - u .w an my $53 . \u . v... . . u ‘4 n '1.“ .
. I”, ,_ II/ I l ’ I VA}, '4 a; I. u. 4 JUL A -1. «A .1. 31.. H
“ r ‘ " "  ' " -' w " 4, "I'll" ‘ f? ‘V

. ‘ H. n I I ; Md ' '.. .-‘ - ’ I -"'.:T ‘w __ ,_-__ 4.. .._,I_. ,_‘.JL.L 14pm; .
I ' I):  a, , J! ,3.  I n
I , v c- 2' 'n .. if ‘  w * f

V‘

wowsmmmmmnuwmh want:
W W

  
  

 

" A \'|\
5'

          

1.31.11. YNCH-L:

  

   1.. 112:3  PJECREATMN AREA

 

" ¢n .I! v" I v T “T I
v ~ '   ummm; A. NEIGHBORHOOD A.th
'I'l‘w'

7"" b H A,“ n'. ~, “

,_‘(. p ; Ava!“ ‘ (APLvI 5 

’ A 61 - 6,3 7 - r ‘

A ' r. ' .I , .l - r J. KL! 3‘ ,l-«LQOL‘AT'TON

A, III I 1‘

‘ A _ 1' ,‘ ‘4‘. .i 

l i I, -A"' 3' l ‘ I . 1 ' _  1_ _  i
‘ ‘ 7 1 s ‘UU :OL 69a 70‘: 600

When Is a Recreation Area

a Park?

Leslie Lynch
,gswg  PARK is a recreation area but not
 all recreation areas are parks.

 When recreation areas are beautiful

5' and have the appearance and charac-
teristics of parks, they are parks. There-
fore, in planning recreation areas, it is
important to know how to achieve this
park effect.

Every recreation area, insofar as possible, should be a
beautiful park which adorns and does much to make the
community an attractive place in which to live. To accom-
plish this important objective requires comprehensive plan-
ning. It is time that more thought be given to making our
cities beautiful; designing recreation areas as beautiful
parks will do much toward that end. A recreation area is a
park when it is beautiful.

For recreation areas to be park-like in character, actually
to be parks and places of enjoyment for all, it is necessary
to see what is required and plan accordingly. There must
be beauty and some shade—trees, lawns, order and a high
standard of maintenance. There must be adequate space.
If an entire recreation area is intensively used for active
games, the growing of grass is a problem, if not impossible,
and it is even difficult to grow trees, so the beauty that goes
with a park is difficult to achieve. At least twice as much
space as is needed for active recreation should be provided,
if the area is to count as a park.

The word park suggests a spacious green area where one
may relax and enjoy the beauties of nature. It is a place
for all people and not for any special segment of the popula-
tion. The term “recreation area” connotes physical activity
but not necessarily beauty. A playground is thought of as a
recreation area for children. The word “playfield,” derived
from the English term playing field-a place where cricket,
soccer, rugby, et cetera, are played—has no clear connota-
tion in this country. Those unfamiliar with recreation terms
invariably ask what the difference is between a playheld and
a playground. The professional thinks of a playheld as a
recreation area for older children and adults—for a segment
of the population rather than an area for all the people.

 

 

MR. LYNCH is areas, facilities, and survey consultant for the
National Recreation Association.

OCTOBER, 1964

During the early years of the recreation movement in the
United States, the need of providing areas and facilities for
children was of primary importance. Consequently, much
thought was given to playgrounds. A little later, small play-
grounds for preschool children were designated as playlots
or totlots. Still later, we began to hear about youth centers
or teen centers, and now much is being said about senior-
citizens centers. The tendency has been to think of recrea-
tion areas and facilities for segments of the population. The
result has been that the general public has come to think of
recreation areas as something apart from parks, and they
have been administered separately by many local govern-
ments.

Now WE HAVE A TREND toward thinking of and planning
recreation areas as parks and administering them in
one department of the local government. It is being more
generally recognized that recreation should be planned for
the family, for all ages, rather than for specific age groups.
All ages now have time for recreation and can enjoy many
things together. Recreation areas and facilities for adult
programs, indoors and out, are on the increase.

Terminology is also important in the planning because
the names of types of areas should suggest what will be seen.
The term park should be reserved for the larger areas whose
purpose is primarily for the more passive recreations. The
neighborhood areas which include playgrounds are prob—
ably best labeled as neighborhood recreation areas. They
might be called neighborhood parks, but too often that
name does not suggest active recreation. The larger areas
which serve three or more neighborhoods and include a
playfield may be called district recreation areas. The term
district park is rejected for the same reason neighborhood
park is rejected. It is believed that the functions of the three
principal types of recreation areas are best indicated by the
terms park, neighborhood recreation area, and district recre-
ation area.

If all recreation areas are to count in the community as
parks, we must have careful planning, not only of the in-
dividual sites but before the sites are acquired. The sites
must be adequate in size and properly distributed. The dis-
tribution of sites should be considered not only with refer-

395

ence to the distance from the homes served but in order to
provide maximum adornment for the community. One of
the important functions of parks is to bring some of the
beauty of the country into the urban areas. When urban
areas are allowed to grow up “like Topsy” with excessive
distances between parks or with many little areas that neither
adorn the community nor provide adequate recreation
space, the desired results are not obtained.

HE NEIGHBORHOOD is the logical urban unit in planning

for recreation. It is normally the area—principally resi-
dential—served by a public elementary school. The school
is usually in the center of a square mile because a half mile
is considered the maximum distance for children to walk to
school. The ultimate neighborhood population should range
between four thousand and eight thousand. A population of
four thousand is needed to support an elementary school
and other services, and eight thousand per square mile is
approaching the congestion point which Americans do not
like. The 1960 Census statistics show that of the cities in the
forty-eight continental states, the thirty-five with populations
of more than a hundred thousand and population densities
in excess of eight thousand per square mile, twenty-eight
lost an average of 6.78 percent of their population between
1950 and 1960.

The neighborhood recreation area should adjoin the pub-
lic elementary school. The school needs a recreation area
as well as the neighborhood population as a whole, so one
adequate site will avoid duplication and waste of tax funds.
Besides, there should be indoor recreation facilities for both
school and the entire neighborhood population, and these
are logically provided in the school building. For the neigh-
borhood recreation area to be parklike, it should have at
least two and a half acres per one thousand of the potential
neighboorhood population. Half the area should be play-
ground and the remainder park that forms a belt or buffer
on two sides of the playground between it and adjacent
homes. The land required for the school building should be
in addition to that required for the recreation area. For
example, if the potential neighborhood population is five
thousand, the recreation area should include twelve and a
half acres and if two and a half acres is required for the
school building and its immediate environs, a total site of
fifteen acres should be provided.

The district recreation area should serve three or more
neighborhoods and should adjoin the public junior or senior
high school. For this area to be parklike, it too should have
two and a half acres per one thousand of the potential popu-
lation served by the school. If the school serves four neigh-
horhoods with a total potential population of twenty thou-
sand, the site should include fifty acres plus the land rc-
auired for the school building and its immediate environs.
Half the recreation area should be playfield and the other
half a park forming a buffer on two sides of the playfield
between the playfield and adjacent homes. as prescribed for
the neighborhood recreation area. If the school building
requires ten acres, the total site should have sixty acres.

For the neighborhood and district recreation areas to
count as parks in the comunity they should he as large as

396

possible. There should never be two or more sites where
one will give the proper distribution. Not only is it more
difficult to make smaller sites parklike but one adequate site
will cost less to develop and less to maintain and supervise
through all the years ahead than two or more sites with the
same total acreage. Both of these types of areas, like large
parks, should be partly wooded or planted with trees, and
should be designed to serve families and all age groups.

h

A MUNICIPALITY should have at least five acres of park
per one thousand of its potential population and within
its limits if possible. The parks, neighborhood recreation
areas, and district recreation areas should comprise a total
within the city limits of at least ten acres per one thousand
of the potential population. A county, metropolitan area, or
region should have at least twenty acres of park per one
thousand of the total population, including the five acres per
one thousand population in the municipalities. The neigh-
borhood recreation areas, district recreation areas, and
parks of a county, metropolitan area, or region should com-
prise a total of twenty-five acres per one thousand of the
potential pOpulation. This total includes only the areas ad-
ministered by the local government or governments.

Included in the park area Where large populations are
involved should be a number of special types of areas, such
as golf courses, sports centers, zoological parks, arboretums,
botanic gardens, nature museums, and reservations for the
conservation of water, timber, wildlife, and so on. Con-
servation is one of the important reasons for parks, and
there should always be some areas for which the primary
consideration is conservation.

POINTS to remember in designing recreation areas for
today’s needs are:

0 A park is a recreation area and the name suggests beauty,
trees, green spaces—a feature that is an asset to the neigh-
borhood in which it is located. Many so-called recreation
areas are not worthy of being called parks but they should
be made so. Every public area or building should be a thing
of beauty. This is a fundamental objective in planning the
system of recreation areas and in planning the individual
sites.

0 The two types of recreation areas that include space for
active recreation, neighborhood and district recreation
areas, should adjoin public schools. The multi-purpose
school buildings should be designed as attractive recreation
centers, including the indoor recreation facilities needed by
the general public as well as those required for school pur-
poses. The school and recreation planning should be closely
correlated. The sites should be worthy of being called parks.

0 All recreation areas should be planned to be especially
attractive to families—to all ages. There should be facilities
for families as such as well as for individual members of the
family. The areas should be located and designed to be
natural gathering places for families and all of the people.

0 The terminology should indicate that recreation areas
and buildings are for all people and not for segments of the

population. 

RECREATION

Crash Program

for Parkland

Acquisition

 

New Jersey moves to acquire state, county, and local recreation sites

Arlo Brown, Jr.

WILL New York and Philadelphia

merge and consume New Jersey
in the megalopolitan process? Will to-
day’s open spaces be overtaken by su-
perhighways, gas stations, high-rise
apartments, shopping centers, and in-
dustrial plants? Will future Jerseyans
never know the serenity of the pine-
lands, the splendor of the Kittatiny range, or the pleasant-
ness of an old-fashioned day in the country? The state and
the public have faced these possibilities and taken action by
adopting the New Jersey Green Acres Program.

 

Pressing need exists for both large and small-scale open-
space facilities in New Jersey. The state, becoming increas-
ingly urban, is already the most densely populated in the
nation. Population increased by nearly 11.3 percent from
1955 to 1960, reaching a density of 803 persons per square

mile.

From 1955 to 1960, attendance at New Jersey parks has
increased by 23.6 percent. This attendance may be, in part,
a result of the above average per-capita income of New J er-
seyans, which opens the way to increased mobility. Many of
the state’s urban area inhabitants, however, have relatively
low mobility and income and need parklands close to home.
Ninety percent of New Jersey’s population live in four ma-
jor urban areas, centering upon New York City, Trenton,

Philadelphia, and Atlantic City.

Existing state parklands and open lands are situated in
the undeveloped'hills in the far north and northwestern por—
tion of the state, and in the pinelands of the south. While an

 

MR. BROWN is director of the Green Acres Division of the

New Jersey State Department of Conservation and Economic
Development.

OCTOBER, 1964.

increasing demand has been placed upon these facilities, it
is clear that parks within the metropolitan areas are vital
to a state-wide recreation design.

Intended as a crash program for land acquisition, the
New Jersey Green Acres Program has been in operation
since late 1961. Since that time it has effected the purchase
of 13,630 acres of state, county, and municipal lands at a
cost of $7,003,770. Wooded tracts, rolling hills, fields, lakes,
and marshes have been added to New Jersey’s preserve of
open land.

The objectives of the program are to preserve open space,
and to provide recreation, conservation, and scenic areas
for public enjoyment. The state’s land-development pat-
terns and recreation needs are under constant study by its
planning division, whose recommendations play an im-
portant part in the formulation of Green Acres plans. One
of the specific purposes of the program is to work toward
balanced land development by providing recreation and con-
servation sites of the proper size for different regions of the
state as indicated by population and land-use trends.

The Green Acres Program has two basic procedures for
land acquisition: Land is acquired by the state itself, through
the Department of Conservation and Economic Develop-
ment, or by a municipal or county agency in er'nel partner-
ship with the state. State assistance to the 100?] agencies is
made in the amount of half of the purchase price of the land
acquired. Provision of lands for recreation and conserva-
tion, including lands for parks, forests, camping, fishing.
boating, hunting, winter sports, wildlife, natural and water
reserves, are eligible acquisition under the program.

The Green Acres Legislation, approved in a 1961 referen-
dum, provides for a bond issue of $60,000,000. The act es-
tablishing the program allocated $40,000,000 of the funds
for state purchases and $20,000,000 for state matching
assistance to counties and municipalities. The National Rec-

397

reation Association actively assisted the state in the promo-
tion of the bond issue.

THE STATE PROGRAM

COMPLETED ACQUISITION under the program of purchase
by the state has so far totaled 12,085 acres purchased
for $5,368,000. The acquisitions vary in size from ten to
four thousand acres, and include rolling countryside, swamp-
land, wooded tracts, and lakes. The following areas, de-
scribed briefly, are characteristic acquisitions:

In Atlantic County, ten miles from Atlantic City, the Port
Republic acquisition covers 755 acres of salt marsh and
wooded upland inhabited by quail, pheasant, deer, foxes,
raccoons, rabbits, and squirrels. The area will be open as
a public hunting and fishing ground and may be developed
further for water-connected activities.

Along the Hudson River, and high above it, the rocky and
wooded Palisades afford magnificent views of the river and
of New York City. The Bergen County Alpine Area in the
Palisades, less than five miles from the George Washington
Bridge, covers 350 acres. It will be devel0ped under an
agreement with the Palisades Interstate Park Commission
for immediate use.

0n the eastern coast of Cape May County, at Corsons In-
let, fourteen hundred acres of ocean frontage, salt marsh,
and uplands have been acquired. This area is one of the last
remaining natural beaches in New Jersey, Unspoiled by res-
idential encroachment or commercialization. The adjacent
inland salt marsh, broken by creeks and ponds, has been
acquired for a public hunting and fishing area.

Acquisition of over two hundred acres of low, rolling
hills is the beginning of a fifteen-hundred-acre Monmouth
Battlefield purchase. This vicinity, the site in 1778 of a
battle between troops led by Generals Washington and Clin-
ton, is now open farmland dotted with old apple orchards
and divided by woods and streams. The United States De-
partment of the Interior has declared the battlefield eligible
as a National Historic Landmark. Industrial development
has advanced close to the property. Recreation development
plans will stress the historic importance of the area.

Northern New Jersey acquisitions include the Black River
Tract in Morris County. Small streams branch off from the
river, which flows through upland woods, fields and pastures.
A total acquisition of twenty-eight hundred acres to be avail-
able to the public for hunting, fishing, hiking, bird and
animal study, picnicking, and horseback riding is planned.

Development for picnicking, camping, swimming, and
boating is also planned for the 225-acre tract acquired at
the southern tip of Greenwood Lake in Passaic County.
Property elevations range from 620 to 845 feet above sea
level. The tract includes a small section of shorefront. With
other proposed and presently state-owned park areas, the
Greenwood Lake acquisition would create a block of twenty-
five hundred acres for public recreation.

Ringwood Park additions, probably one of the most im-
portant acquisitions, will total a thousand acres. Provisions
for every type of recreation have been made. The area will
supplement the historic Ringwood State Park with an active
recreation site.

398

Acquisition of Lake Wawayanda—a rugged, unspoiled
four thousand-acre tract at the top of New Jersey in Sussex
County-Wis a major success of the Green Acres Program.
The tract was described by Governor Hughes as “one of
the last great treasures of undeveloped recreation land in
the state.” The lake, 270 acres in area, is 1,152 feet above
sea level. Deep, clear, and cold, it is edged for half a mile
by a sand and gravel beach. Surrounding the lake is moun-
tainous, wild timberland. The Appalachian Trail passes
through the tract and along some of its promontories, which
are as high as thirteen-hundred feet and provide vantage
points for panoramic views of the region. DevelOpment will
center on the lake.

THE LOCAL PROGRAM

D EVELOPMENT of recreation areas easily accessible to the
urban and suburban population is being made possible
by operation of the local portion of the Green Acres Pro-
gram. Equally shared costs of parkland acquisition to June,
1964, total $3,271,540 for 1,545 acres purchased by fifteen
municipalities and five counties. Some 160 other applica-
tions are in various stages of development.

A local unit wishing to participate in the program must
show the recreation or conservation need for the proposed
purchase and describe the use to which the land will be put.
It must also show that the proposed status of the land as
permanent open space is in conformance with an approved
comprehensive plan for the development of the local unit.
There are no restrictions on the size of the parcel to be ac-
quired. Use of lands acquired under the Green Acres Pro-
gram may not be restricted by conditions of race, creed,
color, or nationality. Regulations excluding nonresidents
are generally not acceptable. “

The local parklands established with Green Acres aid
range in size from less than half an acre to over two hundred
acres. Some include brooks and ponds; others are open
spaces within cities, with trees and grass their only natural
characteristics. Since it is not natural features alone which
make a park successful, neither type of park is more desir-
able than the other, except as neighborhood recreation and
transportation conditions indicate. A few of the local ac-
quisitions may be described to illustrate their diversity:

Haddonfield, a primarily residential community in the
Philadelphia-Camden metrOpolitan area, has had a shortage
of recreation facilities, because of recent growth. The pop-
ulation, which increased by a third in the 1950-1960 decade,
is now expected to remain stable, since most of the available
land in the 2.6 square-mile borough is already developed.
Population density is about five thousand per square mile.
A 2.8-acre park has been established under the Green Acres
Program, on a.wooded, gently sl0ping plot. Four thousand
people live within one mile of the park. The park is next to
the high school, and will be available to the school for some
activities.

liecreation land within the city is essential to the city of
East Orange with the highest population density of any city
in New Jersey—77,000 people live within its four square
miles, a density of 19,250 persons per square mile. The
central section of the city is being increasingly given over

RECREATION

to high-rise apartments. A small park of two acres was sit-
uated in this section, adjacent to some older two- and three-
story houses surrounded by pleasant trees. With state fi-
nancial assistance, one and a tenth acres of adjacent area
was purchased and added to the park which is now being
intensively developed.

Outdoor recreation space has been increased for Bergen
County residents with 350 acres purchased by the Bergen
County Park Commission with Green Acres aid. Streams
run through the wooded tracts, which are to remain in their
natural state, with trails for hiking, and areas for picnicking
and camping. A few play areas may be constructed.

Open land in the Morris County Borough of Kinnelon has
been purchased with Green Acres aid by the Morris County
Park Commission. The wooded and hilly tract has a five
acre lake among its two hundred acres. Trails, picnic areas,
overlooks, and boating, fishing, and ice-skating areas will
be developed. Fifty thousand people annually will use the
park, which is one of twelve county parks serving the 262,000
county residents. Many new homes are being built in the
area, which is connected to New York City by major high-
ways.

These local parks differ in size and character as they differ
in environment, but all share the characteristic of growing
out of the community’s concern for well balanced local de-
velopment.

I I ELP IN THE preservation of open space and the establish-
ment of recreatiOn lands is also available from the
federal government. Both state and local projects are eligi-

Make your playground an INVITATIONWTO AD VENTURE .2 ---‘-

 

They're off to the ball in Cinderella’s colorful pumpkin car-
riage. 15’ x 51/2’ x 8’ tall. 5’ Spring-mounted pumpkin, Wooden
.seats for coachmen and tootmen. Finished in gay colors.

E

 

OCTOBER, 1964

EQUIPMENT FOR FUN AND FITNESS SINCE 1925‘

'0.
' ' ' v" I I «use . ."r. “‘7 ........Ar, , ,,,t - . 1-, . ,- . . . . .. ...- . \ . .I
5. ,5.awn-Hawk“,.ufrnrwiromJMMvac.u-rruu- _.:.~...,,._°» ,,,..,\.., ........~.\4..---- in“, ,... . .. ....r._s_..-._.:‘. ...\.....\...,t.l u...u.....__._\w.w‘ ',_,._,_,,t~_,,..wu,~.  . unwarwhguutum_\_____u,\_,,_\_"~)_/ ._.-. vghv -. ______ “up ., _ .r\__“u‘c...‘,._w....-.............mamas“.\_c.r...-.._,.,__ “a... a, __ L; ..

ble for reimbursement ranging from twenty to fifty percent
on approved projects, under programs administered by the
Urban Renewal Administration of the Housing and Home
Finance Agency and the Soil Conservation Service of the
U. S. Department of Agriculture.

In these first years of the Green Acres Program, assistance
requested of the Urban Renewal Administration by the
State of New Jersey has been approved for seven open-space
projects. The total cost of these projects will be $5,389,493.
The state has submitted eight other applications for federal

assistance. Several counties and municipalities have also

received approval of requests for federal assistance. Re-
ceipt of federal funds by a local agency does not effect the
amount of the Green Acres grant which has been encum-
bered for or paid to it.

Under the Green Acres Program an accelerated full-scale
acquisition schedule is in progress at a pace and scope with-
out precedent in New Jersey. Here is a plan of action for
other states engaged in the race to conserve open space be-
fore it is too late. if:

0 For more on open-space acquisition and state action,
see “The Race for Open Space" (New York and Massa-
chusetts), Recreation, June 1963; “Prospecting Parkland,"
April 1963; “Supply and Demand" (parkland policies),
March 1963,- "Recreation Site Finders,’ February 1963,-

”New Paths to Recreation Space" (eight articles), January
1964; “Call to Action" (need for camping space), March

1964; “Small Watershed Projects" (recreation areas avail-
able under Public Law 566), June 1964,- “Do-lt-Yourself
Park," September 1964.—Ed.

A ' ,. . . a I
‘~ .- w-' o .i- -- .a
. .tz 3,}.\_,.__
1. .a a .a -
. .v r

 

c_;.

1 Let every. child’s imagination soar;

 but 'keep their adventures sure-
 footed. That's a basic Fantasy con-
L‘  cept . . . it‘s executed with traditional
 Jamison® craftsmanship in steel.
 The uncommon design and rugged
'i  durability of Fantasy assures the
 most in play possibilities year after I

I  year on your playground.

fairies t

Ptayground Equipment '
BY '

' Add space to your playground 4-’-‘-‘l'mal<e it a community iandmark — with O 

 FANTASY playground equipment . . . featuring nautical, pioneer, space and 
f' storybook'themes. For cataiog write: Jamison Manufacturing Company, 518 
  East Manchester Avenue, Los Angeles, California 90003. 3* 

Distributors
in many cities. 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 399

 

for children in The Hague, is scaled to
one twenty-fifth the size of an ordinary
city and it covers four acres. Its buildings
average three feet in height. These chil-
dren are shown standing on a reproduc-
tion of an old Amsterdam canal house.

A PARK

IS FOR
PEOPLE

Country by country,
European parks seem to
be more widely used
than those in the U.S.

4-00

 

Elliott M. Avedon, Ed.D.

0U SEE WOR-

derful things in
cities throughout
Northern Europe,
but perhaps most
impressive that
their parks are
b e i n g used. In
some ways, these parks can be com-
pared with those we have in New York
and other large cities of the United
States. Each European city my wife
and I visited last year had some sort of
“central park” and many small neigh-
borhood parks. We often asked our
hosts why these parks are used so much
more extensively than those in the Unit-
ed States. The only explanation our
hosts in each country could offer was
that the parks offered facilities, equip-
ment, and programs that the people
want.

Everywhere we saw new things being
built: improvement to paths, new sculp-
ture, new fountains, new programs be-
ing planned—nothing was static. One
of our hosts said, “What good is an
empty park? If people don’t use it—it
is not a good park.” Another European
colleague said, “A park is for people.
It should provide things for all the peo-
ple who will use it. It should be natural
and beautiful, but this does not mean
that man-made things do not belong in
it. On the contrary, it should combine
art and music with nature, and offer an
oasis of rest for some, excitement for
others, and joy for all.”

In Oslo we saw a park that wasn’t
very big by our standards. It was less
than four city blocks long and about a
block wide. An outdoor cafe with um-
brellaed tables livened up each of the
park’s two major entrances. One cafe
stood on the shore of an artificial la-
goon, in which some sculptures attract-
ed the human eye as well as the dubious
attentions of a flock of small birds.
These birds seemed to be putting on a
special show for the amusement of the
spectator: singing, arguing, and jockey-
ing for position among the sculpture.

 

DR. AVEDON is associate director of
Comeback, Inc., and an instructor in the

recreation curriculum at Teachers Col-
lege, Columbia University.

Paths led through borders of liowers
and past sculptures that obviously had
been selected to establish esthetically
pleasing relationships with the terrain
in which they were placed. Two or
three times each afternoon, musicians
in colorful uniforms assembled in a
small bandshell to play selections rang-
ing from “I Could Have Danced All
Night” to “The Poet and Peasant Over-

ture.” One afternoon a group of stu-
dents gave us a rousing choral concert.

Another section of this beautifully 0r-
ganized park provided a special place
where small children could play safely
and on their own “turf” while mothers
or older sisters watched comfortably
from strategically placed seats. At
night the park was illuminated to high-
light a flowerbed, a piece of sculpture,
the lagoon. Instead of the utilitarian—-
but hideous—iron-mesh fences familiar
to inhabitants of our hometown, this
park was cut off from the hustle and
bustle of the metropolis by tall trees
and low-spreading shrubbery. Within
this magic circle of living greenery, we
found an unmechanized oasis. With a
few steps, we seemed miles removed
from the noises of traflic—and from the
sight of neon-produced uglification.

In Frogner Park, with its magnifi-
cent sculpture by Vigeland amid arti-
ficial lakes and waterfalls, we marvelled
at the beautiful, colorful children’s
playgrounds, a public swimming pool
built into the natural landscape, the
acres of grass, the trees and Howers ev-
erywhere. People sat on the grass, on
benches, or on the rims of fountains.
Teenagers, adults, and aged persons—
all were in the park, using its facilities
to suit their own particular needs and
interests. '

In Stockholm, a young Swedish cou-
ple took us to see Skansen, their “Cen-
tral Park.” Our group of five adults
and three children wandered through
woodsy paths and into houses transport-
ed from all over Sweden—houses rep-
resenting every historical age. In a

Lapp shelter we saw how Swedish Lapps
live.

Deeper in the park we came upon an
exhibit of all sorts of products made in
Sweden. We tasted samples of a new

RECREATION

3

brand of goat cheese and were given
some to take home. Beyond these ex-
hibits an area was set aside for dem-
onstrations. While our host spent some
time here learning how to smoke fish,
his wife took one of the children to have
some ice cream at one of the many out-
door cafes in the park. A young adult
member of the party went off to another
section of the park to do some folk
dancing (he had a choice of three
places). Our host’s ten-year-old daugh-
ter, who had been assigned responsibili-
ty for her younger brother, took him to
the amusement pavilion to drive a min-
iature auto. My wife and I went to
watch the monkeys in the park’s tiny,
immaculate zoo. Later on we all met
again at some lottery booths, where we
invested a few cents and won two cheese
pies, a kilo of coffee, and six smoked
eels.

ON ANOTHER AFTERNOON, I wandered
alone into a park across from our
hotel, in a section away from the cen-
ter of Stockholm. This park adjoined
a public library. Part of the library
was a museum. Near the library,
benches and tables were set up to make
an outdoor reading room. Not far away
were a few tennis courts. Farther on
was a children’s playground and a small
200 with farm animals. In an aimless
amble along one of the sidepaths, I sud-
denly found myself at a carnival—
booths, amusement rides, an outdoor
cafe. Each colorful booth was designed
like a little house. The path continued
to meander along—and so did I———-into
a formal garden filled with rare plants
and flowers. Another turn of the path
and I found myself back at the library.
In Copenhagen, we saw Tivoli Gar-
dens. I mean we lived in Tivoli. It costs
$.21 to enter. In return, a person can
stay from early morning till midnight.
Three free concerts are performed ev-
ery day by a seventy-piece orchestra in
a special concert hall. Over at the pan-
tomine theater, you can see two free
pantomine plays and two free ballets
each day. On an outdoor stage, three
free vaudeville shows are presented ev-
ery day. As you pass by the many
bandshells throughout the park at any

Continued on Page 414
OCTOBER, 1964

Copenhagen’s famed
Tivoli Gardens

offers concerts,
fireworks, colorful
playground
equipment, and quiet
groves and gardens
for just sitting,
gazing, and
contemplating.

Even Scandinavian
factories are planned
with beauty in mind.
This sculpture by
Gustav Vigeland

is on the groumls

of the Freia factory
in Norway
surrounded by

a lovely garden.

Millesgartlen is one
of the foremost
sights of Stockholm.
There, world-famous
sculptor Carl M illes
has created an open-
air gallery of art
with castings of

his own sculptures.

 

UV"

 

1'. H,

, . . g
‘9' :J ‘ x x x v I“ 
_ _. .. . J... ‘    «kn-p. . >-

g.
F

‘ . .- ....
0r&'-.-"  ‘0“ ...- 4

 

r .___....l'w an“; H, ~-- v' -

Setting sail on new adventures. Entrance to the Children’s

Zoo is a replica of the Good Ship Mayflower. The ship is set
in a pool with Egyptian ducks, black Australian swans, and

Emperor geese providing an interesting diSplay of water fowl.

I’ ‘0

('° ‘ .J'

' .
9 0

'n%‘r

 

Most often children are to be found riding on the back of
tliis’fgiant 250-pound Aldabra tortoise; however, other zoo
Here, a
Cameroon dwarf goat takes his turn while his mama watches.

animals. have also found turtle riding intriguing.

402

 

a wooded course and features views of picturesque Orange
Reservoir. The zoo now has two Iron Horse trains in oper-
ation. Twenty-five cent fee helps zoo to be self-sustaining.

 

,_A_ __....__\'

Okky, the friendly octopus, harbors tropical fish within his
pink body. A trained otter has been performing in his pool
during the current season. Important donations to the
zoo include bird flight cages, animals, and a circus wagon.

RECREATION

 

This pair of Scotch Highland cattle

Youngsters oftentimes find they bear
a strong resemblance to the singing Beatles.

DEVELOPMENT of a
CHILDREN’S ZOO

were a gift to the zoo.

 

A self-sustaining facility is the result of realistic thinking, exciting plans, and “zoo fever”

Harold J. Van Co"
NO ONE knows
which member
of the family en-
joys a trip to the
zoo the most. Many
modern - day zoos
combine e d u c a -
tional aspects with
sheer fun and entertainment. At a zoo
such as Detroit’s Royal Oak Park, one
may study a tiger in his natural setting,
stroll through beautiful gardens, ride
a train around the 200’s perimeter, or

enjoy elephants doing a square dance.
This trend of staging animal acts, of

 

providing certain amusements such as
train rides, and of developing specific
children’s areas has brought about
greater public interest and attendance.
Although a trip to a zoo has always
held excitement, particularly for young-
sters, these added attractions are icing
on the cake.

The zoo spark was first kindled in the
Essex County, New Jersey, Park Com-
mission about ten years ago, and the
commission, as a first step, directed
its staff to prepare a report which would
recommend a concept of that type of
zoo which might be built within the
commission’s financial limitations and
a specific site for it. Over the years, the
need for a zoo located in heavily popu-
lated Essex County had become ap-
parent—educators, civic groups," and

 

MR. VAN COTT is superintendent of rec-
reation in Essex County, New Jersey.
For other articles by Mr. Van Cott, see

“Ice Rinks; Construction and Opera-
tion,” RECREATION, October 1963 and

“Two New Ice Rinks,” October and
November 1959.

OCTOBER, 1964

many individuals expressed great in-
terest. The zoo study involved trips to
many zoos in the eastern United States,
conferences with zoo directors, develop-
ment of color-slide accounts to illustrate
important factors, digesting of avail-
able related written material, and count-
less staff meetings. A children-oriented
zoo designed so as to effectively utilize
a fifteen-acre wooded tract in the north-
eastern part of South Mountain Reser-
vation was recommended to the park
commission by the staii.

PLANNING

ESSEX COUNTY has a precious heri-
tage in its twenty-one hundred-acre
South Mountain Reservation which
dates back to 1895, and the idea of con-
structing a zoo there required much
careful consideration. One important
objective of effective planning is to
bring about a harmonious blend of site
with facility. A plan involving extensive
change in an area should envision aes-
thetic values as well as practical use;
the final result should appear ‘as a
pleasing combination of architecture
with the natural characteristics of the
site. Typical public reaction to a new
facility should be: “Why, what a lovely
spot for a ”

The park commission reviewed the
staff’s report which included a color-
slide series portraying, in general, the
types of exhibits and animals which
might become a part of the proposed
zoo. The decision to build a zoo was a
difficult one, for it would commit the
commission to an entirely different
phase of recreation. Basic questions

were involved such as whether the pro-
posed project could be operated on a
self-sustaining basis. Tax dollars are as
important a consideration in Essex
County as in other areas. A facility
with a substantial operating budget,
such as a zoo would require, that
drained financial resources of the park
commission from other parts of the
system could become a liability in the
total recreation picture. After much
deliberation, the park commission gave
approval to the concept of a children’s
zoo located in South Mountain Reser-
vation. Now, a zoo was born, but as in
life, birth is only the beginning.

The task of finding an architect ex-
perienced in zoo design was begun.
Practically all of the children’s zoos
visited were part of a much larger tra-
ditional zoo and came about as a crea~
tion of that zoo’s staff. Emphasis on the
children’s phase of zoo planning ranged
from practically nil at some zoos to
comprehensive at others. It was a stroke
of good fortune that Pittsburgh’s High-
land Park Zoo had recently completed
a fine children’s zoo and that the plan-
ning had been done by an architect. A
visit to Highland Park convinced the
staff that the architect, W. Tj ark Reiss,
was a man of great imagination and
resourcefulness. The park commission
gave approval and the second phase of
Essex County’s zoo experience, that of
locating an able architect, was com-
pleted. Ingenuity would be a requisite,
for the total appropriation to complete
the project, including items such as

landscaping and acquisition of animals,
was only $465,000. H

403

The first concern of Mr. Reiss was
the proposed site. Every advantage of
the area was considered as well as pos-
sible shortcomings. It was situated
close to the geographic center of Essex
County, near a four-lane highway, and
adequate utilities were readily avail-
able. The commission’s ice-skating
center, South Mountain Arena, was lo-
cated a short distance away, adjacent
to the highway, and its twelve hundred-
car parking lot could be utilized for the
zoo; moreover, there was clear space
for easy expansion of parking. How-
ever, to the architect the key point was
the tract itself—its beautiful trees and
gentle slopes. This was the place; its
potential was tremendous!

As a starting point, every tree of any
consequence was plotted, and the archi-
tect studied ways of planning the zoo
so as to retain trees. Trees would play
an important part, their charm and
shade enhancing the architect’s creative
design. Although aesthetic values were
given their full measure of considera-
tion, practical aspects relating to opera-
tions were also carefully studied. En-
trance and exit techniques, a “people-
How” pattern, strategic location of com-
fort rooms, a souvenir shop, and an
“eating house” were a few of the practi-
cal details involved. The architect’s
pr0posed zoo plan was both imaginative
and realistic. It triggered an incurable
disease with the park commission and
its staff known as “zoo fever.”

Although the contracting firm that
received the job award was one of great
experience, building an octopus, a
thatched-roof bamboo house, an ant-hill,
or a giant Swiss cheese was a unique
assignment. It was here that the big dif-
ference between constructing a zoo and
a more conventional facility appeared.
Even the administration building was
of old English architecture, featuring
uneven brickwork and two quaint
towers. It would present a real chal-
lenge to any builder.

ACI'ION

D unmc ALL STAGES of construction,

regular meetings were held at the
site with the constructor, architect, and
commission personnel in attendance. In
this way, problems were discovered and
settled before they became major
issues. Seemingly small details are im-

40-1

portant, for after all, the big headaches
are usually nothing more than an accu-
mulation of trivial problems. It was
fortunate that even the builder deve-
loped a serious case of “zoo fever”; it
was reflected in the fine work of his
employes. The translation of an archi-
tect’s plans in a manner that brings out
the very best requires close cooperation
between all parties—builder, architect,
and “owner” agency. The goal must be
perfection—there is no room for the
attitude which tolerates work that only
“seems to be all right.”

Actual operation is the only real test
of how effective a job of planning has
been done, and at Turtle Back Zoo the
results were gratifying. The “people-
flow” pattern proved to be effective be-
cause visitors did not concentrate on
any single area in a “we-must-see-this-
first” manner. This dispersion pattern
made it possible to accommodate siz-
able numbers of people without a serious
crowding effect. Youngsters and adults
who were surveyed indicated great dif-
ferences in naming their most enjoyable
experience. For some, it was the joy of
feeding and petting animals such as
llamas, Sardinian donkeys, karakul
lambs, and dwarf goats. To the others,
the one-mile scenic railroad ride along
Orange Reservoir was a high point.
Many, particularly parents with small
children, preferred the children’s area
with its Mayflower Ship entrance, live
tortoise rides, walk-in octopus, and tiny
animal exhibits within the Turtle Back
anthill.

Basic to the concept of Turtle Back
Zoo was that it had to be self-sustaining.
The general admission fee of twenty-
five cents for all persons, set so as to
encourage large attendance, was well
received; in fact, there was not a single
dissenting vote from any of the 320.203
visitors during the first season of 1963.
The railroad fare of twenty-five cents
produced a similar reaction of “well
worth it” from the train’s 196,574 Das-
sengers. A bit surprising was the aver-
age amount expended for food. Higher
than estimated, it reflected the attract-
iveness of the eating house with its
colorful patio. Perhaps, the greatest
surprise was the demand for souvenirs.
It seemed that almost every visitor

wanted a postcard, a pennant, or a
Turtle Back T-shirt. The zoo philosophy

was one that would offer a broad range
of recreation experiences at a minimum
fee. .All other fees and charges would
be for so-called “fringe items” not basic
to the zoo itself. Turtle Back was self-
sustaining for its first year of Opera-
tion; in fact, it produced a modest
profit.

An important part of planning is that
it envisions possible expansion in the
years to come. This is particularly true
of a zoo, for improvement and growth
are necessary if it is to continue as a
popular public attraction. The park
commission recently authorized the
architect to develop a master plan show-
ing the types of structures that might
be added to the zoo in future years.
This will insure an expansion program
consistent with the existing imaginative
charm of the facility. The architect is
also preparing a gift brochure in order
that prospective donors may review
needs of the zoo and visualize the pro-
posed exhibit and its location. Gifts
are important to the future of the zoo;
Turtle Back has already had several
important donations which include bird
flight cages, a Star-of—the-Week Ex-
hibit, animals, and a circus wagon.( See
also “Public Gifts,” RECREATION, F eb-
ruary 1963 and “It’s a Gift,” January
1964.)

SUCCESS
NOW THAT Turtle Back Zoo is a re-

ality, it is difficult to visualize Es-
sex County without a zoo! School
groups reSpond with great enthusiasm;
and during the months of May and
June, the parking area is lined with
school buses. Although planned for
youngsters, adults enjoy Turtle Back
too, several nose-counting checks con-
ducted on weekends indicated that for
every eight children entering the gates,
there were ten grownups. However, the
real measure of success of any recrea-
tion facility cannot be statistical. It is
in the fun a family has had doingr some-
thing together, the exchange of smiles
between Grandma and little Suzie, the
look of delight on the face of a mentally
retarded child, and the gentle pat a
llama received from a five-year-old. One
cannot measure these things, but they

can be felt at Turtle Back Zoo. #

0 See Turtle Beck's pettoble Home on
this month's cover.——Ed.

RECREATION

FITNESS

 

PROGRAM

Leg muscles are important to the prolonging of life . . .
never sit or stand still for more than one hour at a time

Paul Dudley White, M.D.
THE SOFT physical condition of the

great majority of the American

people today is appalling and is
reflected in our health. By the intro-
duction of preventive measures we have
largely controlled the serious infectious
diseases that used to sweep across the
country, often in epidemics—diphther-
ia, pneumonia, meningitis, polio, ty-

- phoid fever, and tuberculosis. Now we

are faced with different kinds of epi-
demics which are equally serious and
which are also in need of control by
preventive measures which are now ap-
plicable even though we don’t know the
whole story.

Atherosclerosis—the serious disease
of our vital arteries responsible for al-
most all our sudden deaths, our coron-
ary heart attacks, many of our strokes,
and some of our high blood pressure—
has clearly been shown to be much
more common among peoples like our-
selves everywhere in the world who are
physically lazy and prosperously over-
fed . . . .

. . . Inadequate use of our leg mus-
cles and our hours on end sitting in
our automobiles, in airplanes, at our
desks, and before our television screens

DR. WHITE is one of the country’s most
distinguished heart specialists. This ma-
terial is taken in part from the address
at a Congressional breakfast conference
on bicycling on May 1, 1964. The entire
address appears in the Congressional

Record of May 4, 1964.
OCTOBER, 1964

. subject [us] to the serious hazard
of the blood clotting in our leg veins,
and the sending off of emboli to our
lungs to block their circulation, often
fatally. To prevent this trouble I
strongly recommend that we never al-
low ourselves to sit or to stand still for
more than an hour at a time, but to get
up and walk actively at frequent inter-
vals.

Regular and vigorous use of our leg
muscles is essential for an optimal cir-
culation of blood which is, incidentally,
essential for the best use of our brains.
Our country’s welfare may actually
depend on your cerebal blood supply.
The leg muscles are an important and
unappreciated accessory pumping me-
chanism to assist our hearts physically.
Also, healthy fatigue of the leg muscles
is the best antidote known to man for
nervous stress, far better than the use
of the thousand and one tranquilizers
and sedatives to which, like tobacco, the
American people have become addict-
ed. Incidentally, the diaphragm, a most
important muscle, making of the thorax
a suction pump, is another aid to the
circulation, though rarely recognized
as such.

Finally, in referring to the vigorous
and habitual use of the leg muscles I
would call your attention to the fact that
their use in some way has a biochemical
effect, still to be investigated, which de-
lays the onset of atherosclerosis in our
arteries and so prolongs life as well as
the making of such life mOre pleasant.

thU WILL NOTE that I have con-
stantly referred to the leg muscles
more than to the arm muscles. This is

intentional, for the larger the muscle
the greater the advantage in its use . . .

the leg muscles are a greater aid in
combating the negative effect of gravity.
Hence, any kind of work or exercise
which uses the leg muscles is to be pre-
ferred, whether walking, swimming,
golf, tennis, skiing, or bicycling.

There are about fifty-five million
Americans riding bicycles these days.
Their numbers have been growing by
leaps and bounds in the last two dec-
ades. Their ages range from four to
eighty-four. They are riding tandems,
unicycles, middleweights, touring bikes,
adult three-wheelers, racers, and nov-
elty bicycles of all kinds (and this
doesn’t include several million more
who ride tricycles) . They ride for fun,
health, sport, and transportation. They
ride under varying conditions and in
every part of the country —— in city
streets, and in the countryside, to rail-
road stations, to shopping centers, to
elementary and high schools, to and
on college campuses, and to their busiz
nesses and plants . . . .

It is an expression of the need and
desire of the American people to live
more healthfully and leisurely . . . . It
accounts for why we find so many in-
door bicycles in the recreation rooms
and basements of businessmen’s homes

these days. H

405

Many of us have been strong advo-
cates of bicycling for all ages as one of
the best means of accomplishing and
maintaining a higher level of physical
health for our people. More and more
physical educators, coaches, and recrea-
tion leaders have been inspired to in-
clude bicycling in their programs, al-
though much more is still needed.

. . . I believe in the necessity of ex-
tending bicycling safety and more
broadly across our land . . . .

WHAT IS NEEDED today to accommo-
date our bicycle riding population
are more and safer riding facilities
throughout the country. As chairman
of the Committee for Safe Bicycling
and in association with the YMCA and
the American Youth Hostels, I have
tried to take a personal hand in influenc-
ing the growth of bicycle paths in sev-
eral areas of New England and other
parts of the nation. While it has been
slow going at times, we have made
progress, and wherever we have done
so, we have gained enthusiastic commu-
nity support from the local govern-
ment, from public-spirited citizens,
from business people, and from hordes
of others.

We have had a variety of success in
establishing clearly designated bicycle
safety routes in many localities. Most
notable, I believe, was the nationally
publicized plan for Homestead, Florida,
where the entire community rallied to-
gether to create the nation’s first system
of city streets converted into safe bicycle
routes in February, 1962. These roads
lead from residential areas to schools,
shopping centers, parks, playgrounds,

and cultural centers. They are marked
with large blue and white signs desig-
nating them “Bicycle Safety Routes.”
Bicycle riders stick to them; motorists
usually avoid them, but may use them
if very careful.

I have urged all cities to study and
follow the Homestead program. It is
the perfect example of individual ini-
tiative and municipal cooperation, and
demonstrates what can be accomplished
by a community at low cost and high
enthusiasm. This system has three
hundred bicycle route signs provided
for $1,000. It sets an example for bi-
cycle safety and fun that should be
emulated throughout the entire country.
It is silly and wasteful of health and
money to drive children to school as
a rule, although there are, of course,
exceptions.

Before Homestead, we led the move-
ment that resulted in building an eight-
mile special bicycle path on the beauti-
ful resort island of Nantucket and in
creating a Charles River Basin bicycle
riding route leading from Cambridge
into Boston authorized by the Boston
Metropolitan District Commission. Sev-
eral years ago, I assisted Mayor Daley
of Chicago in opening thirty-six bicycle
paths within that city. There are many
other places that provide bicycle trails
for tourists, such as Yellowstone Na-
tional Park, Colonial Williamsburg,
and Sea Island, Georgia, to touch on a
few . . . .

I have had the opportunity to travel
all over the world and cycling has been
a part of it. I have always been impress-
ed with the adult attitude European
nations take toward their cyclists. They

have been given the freedom and safety
of the road because cycling is a normal
way of life in the Old World and an
essential means of transportation for
many persons.

However, no matter where I’ve trav-
eled, there is no finer sight to be seen
than that in our own National capital.
It is a tourists’ paradise, and it should
be seen leisurely and savored by the
thousands who visit here annually . . . .

The Bicycle Institute of America,
not only stimulated the growth of local
bicycle clubs, but has helped them,
along with fraternal and service organi-
zations, police departments, munici-
palities, to effect worthwhile safety pro-
grams . . . . This has hardly scratched
the surface of the problem. Yet, we are
convinced that it is within the realm
of a real solution. It is my strong belief
that as it continues to grow with the in-
creases in the number of cyclists from
year to year, it is one that needs to be
grappled with at the national level since
it is national in origin.

There are many bills now before
Congress where provisions should be
made for cyclists. It is of paramount
importance and interest to the millions
of persons in this country devoted to
perpetuating bicycling . . . . I have un-
wavering confidence that the bicycle is
a practical and economical vehicle for
keeping our people fit, and I see a great-
er future for our people and our nation
when it is given the means to remain
healthy in body, mind—yes, also in
soul.

. . . I recommend that everyone ride a

bicycle for his own health and happi-
ness. #

 

HIKING and TRAIL SYSTEM

ACOUNTYWIDE hiking and trails sys-
tem will eventually link the city of
Phoenix, Arizona, with county regional
parks and cities and towns throughout
Maricopa County. Mrs. Ruth O’Neil,
chairman of the county board of super-
visors and a member of the National
Recreation Association Board of Trus-
tees, says the plan is a first step toward
acquisition and development of some
720 miles of trails. She points to the
Arizona State Horseman’s Association

406

as the “primary force” behind the plan
which has been approved by the county
parks and recreation commission. A
study was made by a hiking and riding
trails committee appointed last spring
by the board of supervisors. The com-
mittee, under the chairmanship of James
C. Witty, worked with various cities and
towns in the county to complete the
plan.

Major recommendation is to “pro-
ceed immediately” to acquire rights-of-

way for trails on land which may not
be available a year or five years from
now. According to the report the county
should have had some eight hundred
miles of hiking and riding trails by
1960 and will need about twenty-two
hundred by 1980. Less than two hun-
dred miles exist at the present time. The
committee plotted a network of primary
and secondary trails connecting the ur-
han areas with major recreation facili-
ties including ninety-three thousand
acres of county regional parks.

RECREATION

J PATIENT PLANNED PROGRAM

Robert A. Prettyman

D ELEGATES coming south to Florida’s

Gold Coast for the National Rec-
reation Congress, October 4-9, are in-
vited to observe a modern recreation
therapy program at one of the newest
mental hospitals in the country, eight
miles west of the Atlantic, in Holly-
wood. South Florida State Hospital
has, at present, twenty-four large build-
ings, designed to limit the population
to small groups. As delegates visit the
hospital, they will see a large commu-
nity center, snack bars, beautiful tree-
lined drives, and no walls, fences, nor
obvious guards.

Furthermore, it may surprise visitors
to see boys and girls, men and women,
dressed in casual south Florida attire,
in groups of two, three, four or twenty
or more—unattended by uniformed
personnel—playing golf, shufiieboard,
baseball, volleyball, strolling, or social-
izing at one of the snack bars.

Entering one of the cottages, a visitor
may arrive at the time this area’s recre-
ation therapy patient council is in ses-
sion. The president and other patient
officers are conducting the meeting ac-
cording to parliamentary procedure.
Twenty-two members are present, plus
the recreation therapy worker, a nurs-
ing supervisor, and several aides. After
the reading of the minutes, someone
mentions that everyone present had
gone to the cottage dance last night
with the exception of Joe R. who was
sick. The RT worker brings up the fact
that only six fellows showed up yester-
day afternoon to help the girls decorate
the auditorium. He is reminded that
the girls said they would do the decora-
tions this week and the men would take
over next week.

Next comes the new business. The
Men’s Night activity is briefly discussed.
The decision is made to select the) com-
mittees next week. The group agrees
that the hospital patient band will be
requested to play for the men’s night;

MR. PRETTYMAN is director of Recrea-
tional Therapy at South Florida State
Hospital, Hollywood.

OCTOBER, 1964

the secretary will send a request. The
group becomes split over planning a tal-
ent show. The discussion is “tabled”
until next week.

The next week’s schedule of patient-
planned activities is taken up and a
schedule adopted: Monday, travelogue
and discussion; Tuesday, bowling;
Wednesday, square and round dance
instruction; Thursday, card and table
games with Ward E; Friday, outdoor
activities. The meeting is adjourned
and the rest of the time is spent in the
bowling alley.

WHEN YOU ENTER the recreational
therapy building, you may see
the Education Rehabilitation Unit in
session. In the schoolroom they are
planning a new field trip. Dan T., the
patient president, is very directive and
allows little discussion, but rather bad-
gers the students into making decisions
for trip destinations to be considered by
the group. He offers the Norton Art
Gallery in Palm Beach, saying Occupa-
tion Therapy is going there. George V.
joins in (he is a diabetic, who constant-
ly attempts to manipulate, tattles, and
makes long speeches). He suggests
Crandon Park. Martin P., a brain-dam-
aged patient, functioning at approxi-
mately a third-to-fourth-grade level
scholastically, suggests the Museum of
Natural History because he says, “I
know all about it.” A loud, friendly,
Cuban patient, who reads and writes
Spanish and English at about the fourth-
grade level, suggests the Hollywood
Coca-Cola Company b e c a u s e his
brother-in-law works there and this will
allow time to go to the beach. Many
suggestions are listed on the chalk-
board; then it is suggested that each
patient write a letter supporting his
idea. These letters will be considered at
the next meeting.

In the RT building’s bowling lanes,
thirty-one patients from a chronic area
are in the third lesson of the Accredited
Brunswick Bowling Course. Patient
Martha A. is running the. filmstrip and
record player. The subject is ball re-

lease and actual rolling of the ball. The
RT worker helps the patients review the
film in action on the lanes. He an-
nounces that those who obtain certifi-
cates by completing the course will be
able to join the RT group that goes to
the West Hollywood Lanes for regular
Friday morning bowling.

And so it goes at South Florida State
Hospital with the RT “do-it-yourself,”
patient-planned recreation program.
From these meetings, held once a week,
officers attend the hospital-wide Patient
Council. Out of these meetings have
come softball teams, beach trips, Mardi
Gras festivals, luaus, dinner dances,
hoedowns, award nights, Sadie Haw-
kins dances, barbecues, et cetera.

PHYSICALLY, the Recreational Ther-

apy Building at the hospital is
beautifully equipped for all indoor
sports. Outside are located areas that
can be enjoyed ahnost twelve months a
year in this tropical climate: baseball,
golf, volleyball, shufiieboard, horse-
shoes, and bocce. In the building is the
large Educational Rehabilitation Pro-
gram, open to all teenagers, a music pro-
gram, little theater, charm school, and
arm-

The RT staff includes the director,
supervisor and director of educational
rehabilitation, three therapists, and four
aides. Actually the staff is much larger.
Patients are assigned to work with staff
members on every level of achievement.

In this “do-it-yourself” program, pa-
tients are not pampered; they are not
entertained; they have the privilege of
and responsibility for managing their
own corporate affairs. The RT worker
is not a director, teacher, MC, or enter-
tainer; but, as the situation warrants,
his activity varies from controller, to
stimulator, to advisor, to participant-
observer, to enabling-observer. #

0 On Wednesday afternoon, October
7th, Congress delegates are invited to
visit the South Florida State'Hospital
Recreational Therapy program. The
buses leave for the hospital at 1:00PM
and return to Miami Beach at 3:30PM.

407

BURKE
BETTER
BUILL

Playground,
Sports and
Recreation
Equipment

Quality construction...
Engineered for Safety,
Performance and Low-
est Maintenance.

Creative products...
Designed for happy
playtime activity and
leisure.

Never
a compromise
with quality when

YOU BUY BURKE

write for 1963 catalog

the I. E. BURKE

company

Fond Du Lac,
Wisconsin

New Brunswick,
New Jersey

 

.Iullf I‘GI

408

 

 
     
 

[jg PROGRAM

 

GOODWILL

RECREATION

PROGRAM

Richard A. Steinbrunner

S OCIAL AND REC-
REATION activi-
ties for handi-
capped men and
women play a vital
role in the total
rehabilitation pro-
gram at Goodwill
Industries of Dayton, Ohio. Aggregate
attendance at functions of this kind was
almost eight thousand in 1963. Every
effort is made to provide a varied pro-
gram of activities that will present
something of interest and pleasure to all
handicapped persons of all ages.

Goodwill Industries considers rec-
reation and social activities important
from a very practical standpoint as a
part of vocational rehabilitation. The
recreation director is in a position to
observe the behavior of a client and
report to other members of the staff who
are working to bring about changes
with that particular individual. Each
client has an opportunity to improve
his personality and mingle socially
with others. Frequently, the handi-
capped person has been deprived of this
contact throughout his life to the point
that it hampers his taking gainful em-
ployment—regardless of the degree to
which he may be disabled.

The nucleus of the Goodwill program
is a two-hour weekly activity period.
This is held on Tuesday evening and us-
ually attracts an attendance of seventy

people or more. Program material

varies. Some of the more popular ac-

- ._ ‘—

MR. STEINBRUNNER is recreation di-
rector for Goodwill Industries of Day-
ton, Inc., a. rehabilitation center and
workshop for the handicapped.

 

 

 

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

tivities are ballroom and square danc-
ing, bingo, bunko, variety entertain-
ments, and occasionally a homemade
carnival setting. A pool table is avail-
able to those in attendance most of the
time. Refreshments are served by a
volunteer group. These volunteers also
assist in the program in many other
ways and can be considered almost in-
dispensable to the recreation director.

All handicapped persons in the Great-
er Dayton Community are invited to
join in the Tuesday night program. In-
cluded are people with all categories
of disabilities: blindness, paralysis,
cerebral palsy, deafness, to name a few.
The recreation area, which doubles as
the employe cafeteria, is easily acces-
sible to wheelchairs and persons on
crutches.

The volunteer motor service of the
American Red Cross in Dayton pro-
vides auto transportation to those who
do not have public or private transpor-
tation available. Two-thirds of those in
attendance arrive by city buses or are
brought by relatives or family members.

FOR MORE than four years, Goodwill

and the local Arthur Murray Stu-
dio have cooperated in providing dance
instruction to handicapped persons.
This has been a most gratifying phase
of the program. Dancing has had prov-
en therapeutic value for the physically
handicapped in that it provides grace
and balance to their movements and
strengthens infrequently used muscles
in the process. Dancing also provides
an ideal social situation that brings the
withdrawn or timid individual “out of

his shell.”

Concurrent with the dancing instruc-

RECREATION

 

tion the idea was conceived of an an—
nual’dance at one of the local hotels.
For the past three years this affair has
been a huge success with very good at-
tendance (usually 250 to 300) and par-
ticipation. An intermission show has
been provided each year by the danc-
ing instructors from Arthur Murray
and their star handicapped pupils. It
is somewhat amazing to the non—handi-
capped observer to see a young person
put aside his or her crutches and move
out on the dance floor with his partner.
You might not even realize that some
of the dancers are blind.

The Goodwill young adult group
ranging in age from sixteen to twenty-
nine meets on a monthly basis and takes
full advantage of such occasions as
Halloween, Christmas, and St. Patrick’s
Day to have large parties in the winter.
In the summer the group heads for the
outdoors for organized excursions.
Once each year members of the group
journey to Indian Lake, a nearby area
for water sports and amusement. They
picnic, boat, and swim. In the evening
everyone attends an amusement park
nearby where they en 0y the rides. Dur-
ing the summer this same young adult
group attends a big league ballgame
with tickets courtesy of the Cincinnati
Reds. On yet another weekend in the
summer, they visit one of the Dayton
Parks for a long afternoon and evening.
A box lunch is provided and the after-
noon is spent roaming outdoors. Later
in the evening games and dancing are
provided in the shelter house. Trans—
portation for these out-of-town excur-
sions is provided by a local bus com—
pany. The young people who partici-
pate pay part of the cost.

ANOTHER SUMMER activity of the rec-
reation department at Dayton’s
Goodwill Industries is a picnic at a
local amusement park for all employes
and those persons who regularly attend
recreation functions. At this affair ev-
eryone is invited to bring his family. A
box lunch is provided by Goodwill In-
dustries and the evening is devoted to
the midway rides and games. Goodwill
pays the amusement park a Hat rate for
its use of the facilities for the evening.
Admission is by tickets bearing the
name of Goodwill only. Attendance is
in excess of eight hundred people. The

OCTOBER, 1964-

ferris wheel, the merry—go—round, the
octopus, and the bumper cars really get
a workout by these happy handicapped
people.

One week each summer Goodwill pro—
vides a camping experience for about
fifty to sixty handicapped peOple. This
camp which also serves area YMCA
girls is cosponsored by local service
clubs and staffed by five regular reha-
bilitation staff members of Goodwill In-
dustries. It is organized as a vacation
camp for those who attend. For many
there is little Opportunity for a vacation
out-of—town in the usual manner. Ev-
ery effort is made to provide plenty of
good food and an atmosphere in which
they can enjoy themselves. Activities
during the day include swimming, boat-
ing, fishing, and various outdoor games
such as baseball and horseshoes. Craft
supplies are available and instruction
is given to those who want a less active
type of diversion. In the evening enter-
tainment activity is provided. The camp
begins on Sunday and runs through the
following Saturday. For some of the
older campers the greatest thrill is to
sit and rock in the sun on the patio of
the main camp lodge.

GOODWILL has also organized a very
successful bowling league for em-
ployes. The participants pay their own
way at the bowling alley. However, they
do enjoy a reduced rate through the
courtesy of the bowling alley owner.
Six teams compete weekly with great
enthusiasm. Teams have individual
sponsors to provide-shirts and a small
amount of money in the treasury.

A large portion of the participants in
the program also take part in various
recreation activities provided by the
city of Dayton. One of the objectives of
a rehabilitation agency is to encourage
handicapped persons to take advantage
of available community recreation fa-
cilities and programs. While the local
city recreation department does not
play a direct role in Goodwill’s pro-
grams, city centers are used for special
events, and Goodwill Industries works
in conjunction with the city recreation
department in planning three or four
of its annual events. The recreation pro-
gram at Goodwill Industries of Dayton
is devoted to a fuller and richer life

for the handicapped. if:

 

Two thousand feet of ordinary
clothesline were used to make these
guidelines to help blind people

to walk from one place to

another at the Goodwill

vacation camp.

Dancing plays an important role
in the Goodwill recreation program.
Above, a blind person, with

help of a teacher, is really having
herself quite a whale of a time!

 

409

BLUEPRINT
FOR

ORGANIZATION

William Frederickson, Jr.

THE GROWING PAINS of the park and
recreation field reflect the kalei-
doscope of a changing America: boys
back from World War II and Korea,
with new appreciation of physical fit-
ness, more athletic minded, wanting to
see sound recreation opportunities for
their youngsters . . . greater leisure for
all through shorter workweeks, leading to greater interest
in guided sports and in cultural and hobby programs . . .
lengthened life spans and earlier retirements, calling for
senior-citizen programs. And, on the other side of the coin,
a host of social problems: urban spread, mobile populations,
juvenile delinquency, integration, all involving “new looks”
at the part organized recreation can and must play in our
society. As with any growth situation, there have been
accompanying problems and “growing pains.”

A few statistics highlight the story: In 1962, cities of
25,000 or more in this country spent $638,000,000 in oper-
ating recreation and park services, according to the latest
available figures. Striking growth since World War II is
shown by the jump from $51,800,000 in 1946 to $278,000,-
000 in 1955. In Los Angeles, admittedly a community that
has always been recreation minded, a quick look at recrea-
tion budgets, exclusive of parks operation, makes the point:
$3,960,000 for fiscal 1957 compared with $7,100,000 for
fiscal 1965, an increase of 79 percent in eight years.

The size of the problem has been increased in many areas
by the merging of parks and recreation services into one de-
partment, as was done in Los Angeles in 1947. Similar
“marriages” have been effected across the country during
the 40’s and 50’s. The objective has been sound, a unified
operation of closely related services, but these mergers have
also brought increased problems of coordination and con-
trol. The increase in dollar magnitude of combined opera-
tions in Los Angeles will be recognized from the fact that
some three-fifths of its current $16,400,000 budget is de-
voted to park services.

With the burgeoning needs for recreation, the Los An-
geles Board of Recreation and Parks has been increasingly
concerned about costs. Accordingly, it called for a compre-
hensive stem-to-stern review of the department’s operations

 

"III—'T

MR. FREDERICKSON is general manager of the Los Angeles
City Department of Recreation. and Parks.

410

and administrative organization. For this thoroughgoing
“new look,” Los Angeles called upon outside professional
assistance from a firm of management consultants, H. B.
Maynard and Company of Pittsburgh. The assignment cov-
ered roughly two broad areas: the application of modern in-
dustrial engineering and costing techniques to construction,
maintenance, and related Operations of the parks branch;
and a detailed examination into the entire administrative
organization, covering recreation as well as parks.

Both of these areas of study are now in the implementa-
tion stage and are already fruitful of results. The first ad-
dressed itself to the many types of work for which techniques
of measurement and control can be taken directly from in-
dustrial engineering applications in industry: control of la-
bor for construction anl building maintenance, grounds
maintenance, janitorial and custodial services, and the like.
A “management controls” section has been set up, the
counterpart of a time-study-and-methods department in an
industrial operation, reporting directly to the top executive
officer.

Under Maynard training and guidance, the management
controls section is in the process of deveIOping, through
modern work measurement techniques, performance stand-
ards for all measurable work, as well as Optimum crew sizes,
routing of work crews, improved estimating and scheduling
of obs, and the like. Decentralization of some operations
has greatly reduced unproductive travel time, and scientific
determination of crew sizes and standardized procedures
for repetitive work have greatly stepped up the output per
labor hour. This will be reflected in sizable budget savings
which take the form of fewer dollars spent and more return
per dollar. Based on levels of work expected, the department
will be reaping savings at the rate of $2,250,000 per year
when full coverage by standards is attained by the fall of
next year.

ADMINISTRATION REORGANIZATION. The techniques applied in
the industrial-engineering study are well known in engineer-
ing practice, although their application in public jurisdic-
tions is still perhaps an innovation. On the other hand, in
thinking through its organizational problems, the Los An-
geles department has broken new ground. It spelled out ra-
tionales and “litmus-paper tests” not to my knowledge avail-
able in this form in the literature of organization in the
park and recreation profession. These clarify the central-
izing of responsibility for decision-making in those who are

RECREATION

 

Results of an industrial engineering
study of operations in the

 

 

ADMINISTRATION

 

Los Angeles Department of Recreation and Parks

have wide application for the entire field

best equipped to make the value judgments involved. Pains
were also taken to clarify the always troublesome relation-
ships between operating personnel on the one hand, and
service and staff personnel on the other. Finally a “pro-
fessional grid,” or ladder of promotion, was developed for
the recreation branch which will serve as a continuing guide
for professional development and progression in the depart-
ment’s career service.
OBJECTIVES AND APPROACH. The fundamental concept adepted
was that the whole organization structure should be built
around the end products of the department, namely: maxi-
mum recreation service to the public, both “directed” (as at
playgrounds) and “undirected” (as golf, or the enjoyment
of parks, picnic areas, nature museums, zoos, and so on)
within the limitations of available resources.

The pattern decided upon was to have, insofar as possible,
a single head in charge of operating a facility or service or
logical group of facilities or services, with clear-cut re-
sponsibility for all of the operations directly related to ac-
complishing the prescribed mission. All organization
changes are directed toward nine specific objectives as
shown in the accompanying box. These objectives, spelled
out in more detailed form, were included in a document,
“Guidelines Established for Arriving at Final Organization
Patterns.” The end result of all this work is a comprehensive
“blueprint” organization, now in the process of implementa-
tion, and the department’s “as-is” organization will steadily
merge into it.
BASIC ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE. Chart I shows the over-all
relationships developed. Major value judgments involved
dictate the organization groupings. The general manager
and the executive oficer operate as a close team, actually
as a two-part single executive head of the whole depart-
ment. (In smaller jurisdictions these positions could well
be combined into one, as general manager.) The general
manager reports directly to the board, and has the ultimate
administrative responsibility. However, he delegates the
day-to-day operation of the department to the executive of-
ficer, and devotes himself primarily to long-range planning,
public relations, the formulation of over-all policy and re-
lationships with elected oflicials. Thus, operating problems
are normally to be taken up with the executive oflicer, but
this does not mean that there is a barrier to access to the
general manager.

The planning oliicer is a new, high-caliber position re-

OCTOBER, 1964

porting directly to the general manager. Emphasis here is
on broad, long-range planning, having to do with investi-
gations into demographic changes, possible availability of
new parklands, trends that may affect facilities and the like.
He has important community-relations responsibilities in
explaining proposed projects, and also effects liaison with
other planning units in the city, county, and state, and with
relevant professional groups.

The position of public relations was upgraded in scope

CHART I

BASIC ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE
DEPARTMENT OF RECREATION AND PARKS

BOARD OF
COHMISSIONERS

CH F. ACC T.
EIPLOY EE
BOARD
SECRETARY
PUBLIC
R ELATION S

ADI. ASS‘T.

Gammon

EXECUTIVE OFFICER

IANAGEIENT ADMINISTRATIVE
CONTROLS SERVICES
0
RECREATION

' he reports to General Image! .nul
new zoo Is completer established.

PERSONNEL

and importance of activities. Any recreation and parks de-
partment is particularly concerned with public relations,
since it is not producing a commodity or service of a strictly
utilitarian nature, and hence must be sure that it retains full
public support.

The responsibility and authority of the executive officer
are those of running a “taut ship” under the general policy
directives of the general manager and the board. His func-
tion is to interpret policy and then to effect close coordina-
tion and control. Five significant operating units or branches
report directly to him: zoo, golf, recreation, parks, and ob-
servatory. These are discussed briefly below, under “0p-
erating Units,” with further details later on recreation.
Three staff units report to the executive officer to aid him in

411

coordination and control: management controls; adminis-
tration services; and personnel.

Management controls has already been alluded to. In ad-
dition to work measurement and the setting of standards
within the parks branch, it will engage in studies of a broad
industrial-engineering and engineering-economics nature af-
fecting the entire department—hence its independent re-
portintJr status. Administrative services is a collection of or-
ganization units having to do with budgeting, accounting,
office services, and real-estate contracting. The head of ad-
ministrative services is the chief accounting financial officer
of the department. In an organization of twenty-five hundred
to three thousand employes, it is felt that the personnel
function is of sufficient importance to warrant reporting
separately to the executive officer. The position of personnel
officer has been upgraded, and a greatly strengthened per-
sonnel program has been outlined for the department, cov-
ering orientation and training, executive development, uni-
form personnel policies, communication, and the like.
OPERATING UNITS, Detailed charts and explanatory docu-
ments were, of course, developed on all operations, but space
will not permit reproducing all of them here. The following
discussion will therefore be confined to essential rationale,
with an expanded treatment only of the recreation branch
in view of the emphasis in the present article on professional
recreational activities.

Egg} The zoo is set up as an independent reporting unit be-
cause it is a unified “big business” of its own, with special
problems of management and public accountability. More-
over, it is a specialized operation which does not logically
fall to any intervening executive tier equipped to make the
value judgments called for. Similar considerations dictated
the independent reporting status of the observatory. (Spe-
cialized organization units of this kind have minimum inter-
action with other separately reporting units, and, hence,
while titularly adding to the executive officer’s span of con-
trol, do not add appreciable burdens of coordination.) Golf,
which formerly was part of the recreation branch (for golf
play) and of the parks branch (for grounds maintenance)
has now been set up as a separate unit with a single manager
of golf reporting directly to the executive officer. Golf-course
managers at each of the major courses will have larger re-
sponsibilities than heretofore.

"ff The parks branch is the largest organization unit report-
ing to the executive officer, and is headed by the superin-
tendent of parks. This branch is responsible for extensive
expenditures in the upkeep not only of “passive” recreation,
parks, for example, but also upkeep of the grounds and fa-
cilities in all other organization units supplying recreation
services (except for the separately operated grounds work
in golf). Under this concept, the parks branch stands in the
relationship of “landlord” to these other recreation units,
and special instruction documents have been developed on
the organization responsibilities for janitorial services, “gen-
eral utility” services, and buildings and grounds mainte-
nance.

Three major operating units and two important staff units
report to the superintendent of parks: grounds maintenance,
construction and repairs, horticulture, planning and engi-

4-12

neering, and buildings, facilities, and fixtures.

Grounds maintenance and construction and repairs are
important operating units in which the Maynard work-
measurement and standards installations have brought sig-
nificant operating savings. Horticulture is a key activity, in
View of the leadership in parks en oyed by Los Angeles. Be-
cause of the training and experience required by the head of
this unit, and the specialized nature of the value judgments
which must be made, it has been taken out of a subordinate
relationship under grounds maintenance and set up to re-
port separately to the superintendent of parks.

Landscape, architectural, and civil engineering functions
have logically been grouped in a new planning and engineer-
ing unit, together with contract development, specifications,
and inspection. Buildings, facilities, and nxtures is a new
unit through which the superintendent of parks can keep
immediate control over the hundreds of buildings and struc-
tures in the department. This is a highly important addition,
giving effect to an organization objective sought throughout
our study: value-judgment-with-quick-response.

RECREATION, The recreation branch represents a major pro-
fessional organization in the department, and many dis-
cussions were held with the superintendent of recreation and
his top staff in the development of the organization pattern
illustrated in Chart II. The following guidelines were set up:

1. To do everything possible to enhance the sense of pro-
fessionalism throughout all subordinate units of the branch,
and, in this connection, to stress the broad responsibility of
recreation directors for a well-rounded recreation program
in their locations, and of district recreation directors for the
program in their larger areas.

2. To organize for maximum effectiveness of specialized
services, making these available on a staff-service basis to
recreation centers, but to encourage deveIOpment of pro-
grams tailor-made as much as possible for the districts.

3. To develop a “grid” of professional position classifi-
cations which will provide for the greatest possible flexibil-
ity in the assignment of personnel, a clear-cut ladder of pro-
motion, and the ability to “start small” in the development
of certain special programs, with incumbents who are de-
veloping the program advancing up the ladder of classifica-
tion as the program builds up.

4-. To set up organization lines and provide for job rota-
tion in a way to provide personnel development; so that,
for example, there will be, in a relatively few years hence,
a supply of well-rounded, experienced personnel for such key
positions as district recreation directors.

Because of the size and complexity of the branch, the
superintendent of recreation cannot become immersed in
operating details. His function is to develop and interpret
policy and to coordinate and control. He is given adminis-
trative assistance by two staff units: administrative assistant
and business operations. The position of administrative as-
sistant in this branch has been upgraded to one of high cali-
ber, with a heavy “assistant-to” responsibility, and with the
incumbent drawn from a high-level professional grade. In
addition to handling administrative details, the assistant
represents the superintendent in meetings with representa-
tives of the public and other city departments. The business

RECREATION

CHART ll

RECREATION BRANCH

SUPERINTENDENT
OF RECREATION

I BUSINESS
Aom. ASS T. OPERATIONS

CAMPS CULTURAL SPECIAL
Nature Huseums) SERVICES

Services
and Assignments
to Centers

Cultural Ill and
Tralnln
an;  °

'ECR EATION CENTER ‘
PROGRAMS

Communlty
Relations
SENIOR SPECIAL
CITIZENS pROGRAus
PROGRAIII

MUNICIPAL RECREATION
SPORTS ENTERS OPERATIONS

OPERATION IIncIudlnq Pools)

AQUATICS

Centers
Assignments

Districts /

operations unit is concerned, department-wide, with the man-
agement of concessions, department-Operated refreshment
services, parking lots, and the like.

The large group of organization units, recreation centers
programs, is the main operating division of the branch, with
responsibility for by far most of the “face-to-face” recrea-
tion programs. The head of recreation centers programs,
who is, is fact, the “deputy” superintendent, coordinates all
major activities making use of recreation centers facilities.
Thus aquatics, along with municipal sports and senior-citi-
zens programs is placed under his jurisdiction.

Actual operation of the one hundred and ten recreation
centers throughout the city is the responsibility of the head
of recreation centers Operations, a key position working
through nine district directors, each of whom supervises
twelve to twenty recreation centers. The stature of the dis-
trict directors is stressed, since it is up to them to make
maximum use of staff services in the volunteer program, cul-
tural programs, inservice training, and the like.

Aquatics has been given jurisdiction over beaches (the
basis, again, being one of value judgments, primarily with
regard to matters of public safety) . Through its existing or-
ganization of senior aquatics directors, the aquatics section
will be responsible for the training of lifeguards and thus of
supplying the skilled personnel needed at the pools. These
personnel will be assigned to the pools and will be under
the day-to-day administrative direction of the recreation di-
rector in charge of the facility.

Camps is set up as a separate operation reporting directly
to the superintendent of recreation.

The organization unit, Cultural Programs and Services,

OCTOBER, 1964

 

has been upgraded in status to report directly to the super-
intendent. It develops and directs important programs hav-
ing to do with dance, theatricals, art, and the like, and pro-
vides specialized assistance to the recreation directors as a
staff-service unit.

Special services is a grouping of services shown which can
have an effect on the work of all organization units in rec-
reation. It should be noted that special services is the logical
“home” for any new type of program or service envisioned
for the branch. If any one of these special services were to
“grow up” to be a large-scale activity, it could be made to
report directly to the superintendent, or be placed in some
other grouping.

THE PROFESSIONAL GRID, The recreation branch properly em-
phasizes the professional nature of its work, and has appro-

priate educational requirements in its position specifications.

However, the recreation activities, despite their varied na-
ture, are for the overwhelming number of positions not spe-
cialized within the branch in the sense of requiring separate,
specialized education or special licensing; such as, for ex-
ample (in parks), distinguishes a civil engineer or an indus-
trial engineer from, say, a landscape architect. The same
basic entrance requirements can be made to hold for all of
the activities. Experience within the branch (much of it
gained on special assignments) together with supplementary
training will serve to qualify personnel of a given classifica-
tion for the assumption of specialized recreational work—
with few exceptions. Accordingly, a grid or pattern of
classification has been developed.

This professional classification structure provides neces-
sary Hexibility and latitude in the filling of positions from
established lists, and makes clear a recognized career pro-
gression. In the promulgation of this grid in the branch,
detailed classification descriptions and elaborative explana-
tions were, of course, given, and all the job titles and
specifications for a single classification cover staff and spe-
cialist type of work as well as “line” positions. For a given
classification, the responsibility and qualifications called for
are of the same level for both the operating and the staff
position.

An advantage of making the specifications cover both
staff as well as line activities is that it furnishes a “ladder”
approach in working up to contemplated new special pro-
grams where, for budgetary reasons or for best use of exist-
ing personnel, it is not practicable to set up an activity in
the degree of intensity with which it will ultimately be car-
ried on. Thus with a higher degree of supervision than
would be contemplated for the activity when it is a “going
’ a specialist-classification of a lower level can be
utilized. The person selected would later have to qualify him-
self by appropriate examination for the higher level, as soon
as the development of the activity calls for a higher level of
responsibility.

IMPLEMENTATION AND FOLLOW-UP. Any far-reaching organ-
ization change carries with it transitional problems. These
involve fairness to existing personnel, preparing for innova-
tions, compliance with budgetary requirements and civil-
service regulations, and so forth. The fear of change itself
must also be remembered, and time taken to lay proper

concern,’

413

groundwork. Our board’s early policy pronouncement stat-
ed that where a position has been changed or eliminated, the
employe involved shall receive a special rating retaining his
former compensation, but even more important in some
cases is to defer action while certain personnel can be qual-
ified for new duties.

It is imperative, however, that in deferring certain moves
the end objective be not lost sight of. In our case, the “blue-
print” organization incorporated in our new organization
manual keeps our eye on the target. This looseleaf manual
has one section showing the blueprint charts, together with
descriptions of new or changed positions, and another show-
ing the “as-is” alignments. The master copy contains com-
plete class specifications and position descriptions on all po-
sitions in the department. The personnel oflicer keeps the
manual up to date.

In line with #6 in the list of objectives, one of the con-
sultants’ first steps was to revise the department’s budget

preparation procedure so that budget requests emanate from
the value-judgment focus in every organization unit. Bud-
get matters, of course, are only a part of a host of subjects on
which there must be developed sound, uniform statements
of policy and procedure. Therefore, another effective f ollow-
up tool is a new policy and procedures manual (looseleaf, for
ready updating) which develops lucid guidance on import-
ant actions cutting across organizational lines. The admin-
istrative services division is responsible for its upkeep.

Sharpening of managerial ability and strengthening of
communication—#7 and 8 in the obectives—are extremely
important. They indicate a program of action involving per-
sonnel training, executive development, and employe com-
munication which will keep the department busy as long as
it is in business—for an organization is a living thing, sub-
j ect to constant change, usually to continued growth. “Liv-
ing” means adapting to change—and that is the challenge
Los Angeles is meeting! #

ORGANIZATIONAL OBJECTIVES FOR RECREATION AND PARKS

1. Build into the organization structure provisions for effective, systematic,

:gng-range planning of professional programs and the facilities needed for
em.

2. Make_lines of authority and modes of communication so clearcut that
most effective use will be made of professional talent and the supporting
services needed to enable the professionals to do their work.

3. Center responsibility for decisions affecting a given activity at a given
location. In the position whose incumbent, as called for by the position speci-
catron, IS equipped by education and experience to render the valve Judgments

involved in accomplishing the major mission of that activity. Eliminate pro-
forma approvals.

4. Make it obvious to all personnel involved in an activity just where
responsibility for that activity lies; and, similarly, where the public is eon-

cerned, make it clear who is the responsible head of an activity at a specific
location.

5. To the fullest extent practicable, give responsible professional personnel

a voice in the programming of their operations, so that they may look upon
their work as a challenge to their training and talents.

6. Put heavy accent on budgetary procedures, cost determination. and
management control reports so that those who make value decisions regarding
specific activities also bear the responsibility for the costs involved.

7. Sharpen the managerial abilities of all key personnel, from foreman,
office department head, and recreation director on up, so that all are aware
of the need of, and follow through the use of, effective supervisory techniques,
administrative control techniques, effective communication, effective planning,
and the like.

8. Strengthen all of the communication practices of the department: indoc-
trination of employes, clarification of procedures, upward flow of suggestions,
information for the public, and the like.

9. Keep in mind the problems of people with respect to the transition to
the proposed new organization.

 

A Park Is For People
Continued from Page 401

 

time of the day you can take your pick
of marches and patriotic ballads, Vien-
nese waltzes, or popular music.

Tivoli has an artificial lake for boat-
ing, and some very imaginative, beauti-
ful fountains. Twice a week the other-
wise tranquil evenings by the lake are
enlivened by elaborate fireworks dis-
plays. At one of the nightclubs in the
park the singer, Sarah
Vaughan, drew a huge audience. We
blew as much as $1.50 a day on amuse-
ment rides, games of chance, and about
$3.00 for dinner for two at one of Tiv-
oli’s innumerable outdoor and indoor
restaurants. Each restaurant conjures

American

up faraway places—you might be in

411-

India or the Orient, or on an island
in the South Seas . . . .

The colorful equipment in Tivoli’s
free playgrounds is designed to give
free rein to the well-known childhood
capacity for using things imaginatively
and creatively. For one’s more con-
templative moments, Tivoli’s quiet
groves are ideal for just sitting and
gazing at flowers, fountains, people, and
wild birds. In some spots, the benches
are protected by plexiglass walls de-
signed for shelter from the sometimes
chilly Northern breezes without ob-

structing the view.

A MSTERDAM has little enclaves all
over the city. Circles—undoubt-

edly planned so streetcars can turn into
carousels for the pure fun of it—are

filled with flowers, trees, sculpture,
benches, and lush grasses. Wherever
two canals meet, a little triangular park
is the rule. In one place we watched
old men and young boys fishing side
by side in a park along a canal. 0n the
fringes of many a small park we daw-
dled over “coflee and” in the unhurried
atmosphere of a sidewalk cafe.

Small groups of children play in the
magic circles and triangles of Amster-
dam—safe from trafiic, in a country of
their own, right in the middle of the
city’s workaday life. In some spots,
plots of ground are used by the resi-
dents of a neighborhood, and each per-
son has his own small garden, even
though he lives in an apartment house.
Everywhere, we saw places for people
to tie up their boats, step ashore to en-
joy the view, or just lie in the sun.

RECREATION

 

In'London we saw many parks, but
to us the most striking thing was the
activity at Hyde Park “Corner.” The
rules of the game are simple. If you
have SOmething to say, say it! Bring
a soap box or just stand on the ground.
You can have a sign, a flag, or a banner,
if you like. You can speak any day of
the week from early morning till mid-
night. You can talk about anything, ex-
cept that you must not make statements
against the Queen or incite a riot. If
what you have to say draws a crowd,
that’s OK. You can answer the ques-
tions the audience shouts at you or you
can ignore them.

NOW that we’re back home in New

York City and attending meetings
about “redeveloping” the park in our
particular neighborhood, the thought
occurs that we might profit more from
thinking about “deveIOpment” instead
of “redevelopment.” Compared with
some of the things we have seen in Eu-
rope, New York has yet to begin de-
veloping its parks. As a New Yorker,
I now ask myself questions—ones that
might be asked by any citizen in a
metropolitan city—about what’s avail-
able to the average citizen. For exam-
ple, there may be fiowers on Park Ave-
nue, but how many of us in other neigh-
borhoods have a chance to enjoy fresh
flowers during the summer? There may
be a few sidewalk cafes in Greenwich
Village, but where else?

There may be lots of modern sculpture
in the city, but why does it all have to
be in museums or in the lobbies of lux-
ury apartment houses? Why do chil-
dren’s playgrounds have to look like
the gunmetal grey leftovers from a
plumbing convention? Why does a
band concert have to be in the same
park five nights a week instead of play-
ing in a different park each night, so
more people can have the privilege of
attending? Why are aged and handi-
capped persons prohibited from going
into many parks because thirty years
ago someone decided that steps were
the things to build? Would it be neces-
sary to increase police protection in the
parks each summer, if our parks offered
more interesting and varied activities
for all age groups? How many metro-
politan cities in the United States have
these same problems? 

OCTOBER, 1964

 

Br FOR THE ILL 86 HANDICAPPED

 

+ Teenagers in the Spokane, Washing-
ton, area are helping wipe out age-old
fears and misconceptions about mental
illness, and are teaching their parents
and other adults a thing or two in the
process! In a program sponsored joint—
1y by the Spokane County Chapter of
the American Red Cross and Eastern
State Hospital at Medical Lake, some
forty-three young boys and girls
worked as volunteers last summer on
the wards and grounds of the psychiat-
ric hospital. Ten of them kept up regu-
lar hospital assignments during the
school year and others took part in spe-
cial activities last winter.

Officials of the Red Cross predict that
as many as four hundred teenagers may
take part in the overall volunteer pro-
gram in the Spokane area during the
summer. Mrs. Frances Stimson, volun-
teer coordinator at Eastern State, and
Katherine Spencer of the Red Cross Of-
fice of Educational Relations are cur-
rently working out details for the hos-
pital’s participation in the greatly ex-
panded program which will get under
way soon.

Volunteens, as the American Red
Cross teenage workers are known of-
ficially, were assigned to virtually every
area of the hospital last summer with
apprehension on the part of some staff
members at first. Before the summer
was over, all the apprehension had been
replaced by overwhelming enthusiasm
for the program, and the service of Vol-
unteens was in great demand through-
out the hospital.

+ Fountain House, the first psychiatric
rehabilitation center of its kind in the
United States, is completing its new
facility in New York City. Fountain
House has helped thousands of trou-
bled peOple who have undergone psy-
chiatric hospitalization to make a suc-
cessful readjustment to community liv-
ing. At Fountain House there are only
members, and all are given the feeling
of belonging. This voluntary, home—
like non - fee - charging rehabilitation
center has enabled members to rejoin
their communities, and, indeed, enrich
them through productive employment
and family support. The new facilities
will have twenty-six thousand square
feet of space in contrast to the present

DR. THOMPSON is director of the Na-
tional Recreation Association’s C onsult-

ing Service on Recreation for the Ill and

Handicapped.

Morton Thompson, Ed.D.

five thousand. There will be expanded
recreation facilities, a living room with
fireplace and a large dining room, and
greater facilities for pre-vocational op-
portunities.

+ A vivid demonstration of how the
handicapped can help themselves in a
community setting is provided by the
Seattle, Washington, Handicapped
Club. By pooling their resources, en-
ergy and ideas, members now have their
own center for recreation and are work-
ing on the development of a residence
home. The April 1964 issue of the club
newsletter The Good Samaritan lists an-
nual statistics of activities participated
in by the handicapped. Some of these
are (1) First Sunday of the Month pro-
grams: 345 handicapped and 63 volun—
teers; (2) 49 Tuesday Class Days: 893
handicapped, 461 teachers, 209 helpers;
(3) Thursday Class Days: 1519 handi-
capped, 753 teachers and assistants, 342
helpers.

+ Handicapped citizens in Oakland,
California, will be helped to live a more
normal life and enjoy recreation exper-
iences in a normal environment through
the efforts of the Oakland Committee on
Recreation for the Physically Handi-
capped Adults formed this year. This
group of interested citizens will work
with the Oakland Recreation Depart-
ment and other community agencies.
The committee will operate a weekly
program at the North Oakland Recrea-
tion Center. Funds for the program are
being raised by the volunteer commit-
tee through citizen donations.

+ Heating equipment has been in-
stalled in the swimming pool at Camp
Hemlocks operated by the Connecticut
Society for Crippled Children and
Adults, Inc. In addition, the society has
added new equipment and refurnished
the recreation and dining rooms.

+ The hospital of the future will be

more hOSpitable than its predecessor
and, in 'fact, may become a kind of “ho—
tel” for the sick and for visitors, pre—
dicts Leonard M. Leonard, executive
vice-president of the Institute of Moti-
vational Research. Proposed develop-
ments would aim “to lift the fog of
fear from hospitals—to humanize them
and relate them as far as possible to
normal living situations.” Therefore,
recreation should play a much greater
role in the hospital of the future.

415

Material presented in this section

is condensed from publications in
related fields and other sources

which recreators are not apt to see.

RECREATION

 

DIGEST

THE ICEMAN COMETH!

Vernon Green

OME wasn’t built in one day and
R neither is a skating rink, except
under unusually severe winter
conditions. There are no “tricks” or
formulas for making an ice rink. It
takes mostly patience and good judg-
ment. The first you must have, the sec-
ond you gain by experience. Most peo-
ple think that all they have to do is turn
the water on, let it run long enough to
make a pond, then go to bed and wait
for it to freeze. Nine times out of ten,
all they will find in the morning is shell
ice. This is caused by water seeping
into the ground after the top has start-
ed to freeze, or by the water under the
ice that has started to freeze on high
ground, running to lower ground.

The first factor to consider is, nat-
urally, the site. The ideal location is
a flat piece of ground on the north side
of a hill. This will keep the ice shaded
on days when the temperature rises
above freezing. Since the sun’s rays be-
come more direct and stronger as spring
approaches, a protected area will save
you many skating days that would oth-
erwise be lost due to soft ice, thus ex-
tending the skating season by as much
as one or two weeks.

If you have a choice of soil on which
to build the rink, look for a clay or a
clay mixture. This will prevent seepage
during the early stages of the ice base
construction. With proper preparation
and good winter weather, however, the
ice can he built on almost any type of
soil. Blacktop can also be used, al-
though it is not recommended because

a strong sun will rapidly thaw the ice
on it.

W—F._
' '—' ‘

MR. GREEN is superintendent of recrea-
tion. fields in Saratoga Springs, New
York. This material is digested with

permission from Scholastic Coach, Jan-
uary 1963.

 

416

Ideally, the rink should be located on
flat, high ground with the outside edges
of the area sloped up slightly to retain
water. The top of this sloped edge
should be as high or slightly higher than
the amount of ice you anticipate build-
ing throughout the winter. It shouldn’t
be too steep or abrupt, however, or it

will offer an obstruction during snow-
plowing operations. If this slope pitched
down again on the back side, allowing

 

water from melting snow banks or rain
to drain away from the rink instead of
on it, so much the better.

The type of hose to use depends on
the size of the rink. For a medium-
sized or a large public rink, you will
need either a 11/4-inch or 21/3-inch fire
hose. You will also need a nozzle, _re-
gardless of the size of the hose.

In rink terminology, you either
“flood it” or “spray it.” The first means
without a nozzle, the second with a noz-
zle. When spraying with a 21/24an
hose, the water should amount to one-
eigbth inch in thickness. When flood-
ing, it amounts to about one fourth inch
or more, depending on how fast you

move. With a smaller hose, there would
be less water, assuming you moved it
about the same speed as with the larg-
er hose.

“Ice creepers” should be provided for
all men engaged in the ice-making op-
erations. These are placed on the shoes
to prevent injuries from slipping or
falling. They can be purchased at most
hardware or sporting goods stores,
since they are used by many sportsmen
for ice fishing.

Your water hydrant should be locat-
ed about halfway along one side of the
rink, and the hose should be long
enough to reach nearly to the end of
the rink in either direction. A word of
caution here: If you are unaccustomed
to holding the nozzle end of a fire hose,
it would be wise to have two men, both
wearing creepers, hold the nozzle when
the water is turned on.

Since the temperature usually drops
after the sun goes down and since the
rink will be used in the daylight, work
must be done at night. This makes it
necessary to have a good lighting sys-
tem.

THE TIME of year to start work on

your rink depends upon your geo-
graphical location. The first require-
ment is to give the ground sufiicient
time to freeze. Two inches of frost
are suflicient but more than that is even
better.

Since there will nearly always be a
few places where seepage may occur,
extreme care must be taken not to put
on too much water at first. Start off by
spraying.

Hold the nozzle high. Try not to
make any puddles, but try to get the
same efiect as a freezing rain. Cover
the entire rink area as fast as you can

move the hose. This will be hard the

RECREATION

 

first time, since there will be no ice for
the hose to slide upon. After that, the
hose will slide easily. At this stage, it
takes us about fifteen minutes to cover
our entire rink area, approximately
forty-five thousand square feet.

At first, don’t worry about the small
spots you miss. Concentrate on hitting
them on the next trip around. Often it
is cold enough to start right over again
after you have covered the area once.
This is where you must use some good
judgment. You should be able to apply
two or three sprays an hour, depending
upon the temperature.

The spraying should be continued
several hours each night until there is
a sufficient coating of ice to cover the
bare ground, with small puddles in the
low spots. If these puddles do not shell
it is an indication that the ground is
sealed enough to start flooding.

The first time you flood (without the
nozzle), you must again work fast, since
there are certain to be low places where
the water runs deep and too much water
is apt to cause shelling. This flooding is
a step-by-step operation. Do not try to
level the ice off with one flood. Each
time you flood, wait until it all freezes
solid, then flood it again. The water
will seek its own level until the low spots
have gradually filled and the whole sur-
face is level, even where the ground is
high.

lf, deSpite all your efforts, shelling
does occur, these places can be sealed
with snow. They will seal quicker if
you will put snow in the water immedi-
ately after the rink is flooded, rather
than patch them with dry snow before
flooding.

With reasonably cold weather, rea-
sonably level ground, and a reasonable
number of men putting in an unreason-
able number of hours, you should have
your rink open in three to five days
with at least an inch of ice over the
highest ground. The depth of the ice
will be increased as you go on, de-
pending on how often it needs resurfac-
ing during the skating season. If you
are planning a speed-skating meet, you
should have a minimum depth of four
inches over the highest ground.

' I ‘HE METHOD described above applies
to starting a rink on bare ground.
Often, however, you will have a snow

OCTOBER, 1964

storm before it is sufliciently cold to be cold enough to freeze a spray on the

start making ice. Any snow storm
amounting to more than an inch or tWo
should be plowed off, since the snow will
act as an insulator and prevent the
ground from freezing as fast as it nor-
mally would. If it is a small snowfall,
you have a choice: either of plowing it
off or rolling it with a large roller. If
you decide to leave the snow on the
rink, you will have to wet it until it
becomes slush after it is rolled.

Since this is a slow process on a large
rink, tie the hose to a tripod and let it
run in one place until the snow becomes
slush and then move it to another place
until the Whole area is slush. This usu-
ally produces too much water with not
enough frost in the ground, resulting
in a lot of shell ice. But, if you are lucky
and the slush freezes without shelling,
it may cut down the overall time for
building the rink by as much as a day
or two. If it does shell, spray lightly
and patch the shell spots with snow un-
til they are sealed.

Now that the rink is level and open
for public skating, daily maintenance
becomes the first order of business.
Again, this is mostly night work, ex-
cept for supervision during daytime
skating sessions. The amount of traffic
and the temperature are the determin-
ing factors in the frequency of resurfac-
ing. Obviously, the ice would not cut
up as much on a cold day as it will on
a warm day. Also, it is unwise to spray

or flood the rink on a night for which
above-freezing temperature has been
predicted.

As a general rule, a quick spray—
just enough water to fill skate marks
and cracks—makes a better skating sur-
face than a flood, since it is usually
just the top layer of ice that chips off.
There are times when it will be too cold
to spray effectively. The water will par-
tially freeze after only a few minutes.
Consequently, as you try to blend the
water on places which have not been
wet, the spray will fall into the partially
frozen water and roughen it into tiny
pimple-like bumps and pockmark de-
pressions.

Unless the ice is in very bad condi-
tion, it is sometimes better on these
nights to sweep out the cracks and pour
a little water in them rather than spray
the whole rink. On other nights, it may

level ice but not cold enough to freeze
all the water in places where there are
fairly deep cuts in the ice.

WHAT IS the best temperature for
making ice? The closer it gets to

the freezing point without going above
it, the better the ice will be. The longer
the water lays on the old surface be-
fore it freezes, the more chance it has
of melting into and clinging to the old
surface and consequently does not chip
off as easily when skated upon.

It is necessary to sweep the rink clean
before spraying after the day’s skat-
ing session. This is best done with a
tractor-driven rotary broom of the type
used by most communities for street
sweeping. If this piece of equipment
is not available, it will be necessary to
get some hand scrapers, which are wide
shovel-like tools. They are pushed by
hand, lengthwise on the rink, starting
from the middle and working toward
the edge—being held at an angle so that
any accumulated snow or shavings from
skating will be spilled off only on one
side in the same manner as a snow plow.
The resulting ridge of shavings is grad-
ually worked toward the edge of the
rink with each trip.

For plowing snow on a skating rink,
use a four-wheel drive vehicle. The ex-
tra traction gained by the added front-
wheel drive eliminates the necessity of
using tire chains that would tear up the
ice. It also enables you to push a lot
more snow than even a larger vehicle
with two-wheel drive. If hit by a snow
storm that promises to be a big one,
it is advisable to plow after every inch
or two accumulation because of the dif-
ficulty involved in plowing off a deep
snowfall all at once.

If you are contemplating holding a
winter carnival with speed skating or
figure skating competition, it is advis-
able to contact an official of the Amateur
Skating Union or the US. Figure Skat-
ing Association or the member associa-
tion in your area. Through them you
may obtain information on sanctions,
sanction fees, dimensions for standard
racing tracks, and other pertinent

data. #

o For more on ice rinks, see Page 423;

also “Smooth Skating," September
1964, Page 356.—Ed.

417

MARKET NEWS

 

o COMPOUND INTEREST. New permanent aluminum model-
ing compound models like clay, hardens into metal. NO in-
termediate steps are needed since Sculp-metal itself repre-
sents the final medium. It is not a plastic but a true metal
which air hardens without chemicals, heat, or baking. It
can be used in a studio, workshop, and classroom alike since
no heat, flame, flux, complicated tools, or equipment are

needed. A fifteen-page booklet is available for 3.25, ex-
plaining in full the various aspects Of Sculp-metal. Also in-

cluded is a listing Of the many uses for Scalp-metal. Booklet

and Scalp-metal are available from Sculpture House, 38
East 30th Street, New York 10016.

0 WEATHERPROOFING. A one-part thermosetting epoxy res-
in, applied in a powdered form, is designed to protect any
metal object from corrosion, whether underground or above
ground. Scotchkote resin can be applied by flame spraying
on any size Object from welded pipe oints to storage tanks
and ships’ superstructures. The resin can also be applied to
smaller objects by spraying with a flocking gun after they
have been heated.

The coating provides permanent resistance to moisture,
total immersion in mild acids and alkalies and heat. Moisture
does not affect the function of this coating. Mild acids, al-
kalies, and common chemical conditions have no effect on
the cured epoxy. Corrosive vapors and salt atmosphere gen-
erally do not affect objects coated with Scotchkote resin. For

further information, write to Robert I. Ward, 3M Company,
2501 Hudson Road, St. Paul, Minnesota 55119.

0 WALK 0N BEAUTY. Pre-moulded asphalt blocks represent
a special development of asphaltic concrete in block form.
They are composed of approximately six percent high-melt-
ing-point oxidized asphalt and ninety-four per cent graded
crushed rock aggregate and mineral filler. This block mixed
at a temperature of 300°F passes through high-speed hy-
draulic presses which apply to each unit a uniform com-
pression of not less than four thousand pounds per square
inch. Through the years asphalt blocks have been used for
heavy-duty flooring, promenade and play roof surfacing,
and decorative exterior pavements for parks, patios, civic
centers, stadiums, et cetera.

Asphalt blocks provide an extremely durable heavy-duty
surface that can withstand the constant traflic of steel-
wheeled equipment. They have structural resiliency which
absorbs shock, relieves contraction and expansion strains,
and makes for comfort under foot. Because of their high
density, aSphalt blocks are non-absorbent, taking in less than
one half of one percent of moisture when subjected to hy-
draulic pressure under vacuum. They will not incorporate
or impart odors. nor will they support combustion. They

have the highest load-carrying capacity of any asphaltic
concrete surfacing and will not indent under heavy loads.

Special, graded aggregates are incorporated in the aSphalt
blocks which give the material a distinctive terrazzo effect,
by grinding the blocks in place with terrazzo machines.
When terrazzo blocks are used for decorative pavements,
they can be installed directly on a lean-sand-cement cushion
underlayment over a stabilized concrete base. Bold designs
can be created with the use of poured concrete strips to es-
tablish grid patterns.

For further information and brochure, write to the Hast-

ings Pavement Company, 128th Street and College Point
Causeway, Flushing 54, New York.

0 FLORAL FOUNTAINHEADS for parks and spacious outdoor
settings. Dramatic blossoms of water, whirling in dazzling
patterns, suitable for pool, pond, or lawn. Each one fash-

 

ioned to produce a distinctive pattern, such as rotating pOp-
py, dandelion, lily, tulip, petunia, et cetera. Each head is
coupled with a compact electric recirculating pump. The
smallest area can come alive with the graceful motion of a
flower-in spray. For further information on fountains, gar-
dens ornaments, teakwood garden and park furniture, write
to Erkins Studios, 8 West 40th Street, New York 10018.
(This studio is equipped to execute work from your own
sketches and ideas. Address “Special Order Department”

for estimates.)

0 WHAT COLOR WERE CINDERELLA’S SLIPPERS? Projects

galore are possible with Vercolor Transparent Glass Colors,
available in eight transparent and three Opaque shades.

Use for transparent scenes and designs on glass plaques or
on thin, clear plastic sheets; authentic-looking imitations
of stained-glass windows and panels; decorating glasses

chinaware, lamp shades, ceramics, and window shades
(waterproof) ; coloring of light bulbs and lanterns for de-

corating purposes; production Of lantern slides and other
visual aids where transparency and/or heat resistance is a
factor. These glass colors are waterproof, reasonably light
resistant, and withstand rather high temperatures without

fusing or melting. They adhere to any smooth surface. For
sample color transparencies and further information, write

to Talens and Son, Inc., P.0. Box 453, Union, New Jersey.

For further information, please write directly to source given and mention RECREATION Magazine.

418

RECREATION

 

RESOURCE GUIDE

 

r. l ,- _ a _ - 0 3 
 mm“ 

INDEX TO ADVERTISERS

Page
American Athletic Equipment Inside Front Cover
American Excelsior -___..__-n___-  379
American Heritage Foundation ___________ __ 422
American Locker _____________________________ __ 383
Creative Playthings __ ______________________ _.__ 425
Game-Time .. _________________________________ -_ 384
H 8. R Manufacturing _______________________ _.__ 379
Hillerich and Bradsby  Inside Back Cover
Honda Associates _h____-__-,-_______-,.__.____-__ 421
J. E. Burke _. _______________________________ -_ 408
Jamison Manufacturing __.--_-___-_._-__-_____ 399
Kwikbilt _________________________________ _-.. 329
Keep America Beautiful 421
National Retarded Children’s Week ...... __ 424
Recreation Research Institute _____-___..__.___ 424
Ronald Press __________________________ __ 423
Savage Anschutz --__----.___.._________-..____-__ 427
Sentinel lockers -__-_n--_..___-______-__-_-__-- 392
Tandy Leather __n-_____-.___-_____-_-___1%---- 425
United Fund _____s-__-_______-_..__________-- 421

g.- .r a:.-_. - _ U, _. ._:_ I.. . .. .... . _


A T T E N T I O N
NRA-Affiliated Parks
and Recreation Departments

ARE THE PARTICIPANTS
in your
SPORTS PROGRAMS
PROTECTED
with
ACCIDENT COVERAGE
9

For sports team insurance to
protect your basketball. foot—
ball. and ice hockey teams.

write to

NATIONAL
RECREATION
ASSOCIATION

8 West Eighth Street. New York. N.Y. 10011

 

OCTOBER, 1964

F  AIDS—Please Write Directly To Sources Given
—and mention RECREATION Magazine

ARTS AND CRAFTS

Bamboo and bansoi. A forty-eight~page cata-
logue lists every possible sUppty needed for
bonsai (miniature tree culture), as well as a
large selection of Oriental stone bosins, pottery
lanterns, stone lanterns, bamboo, Japanese
pines, Oriental and unusual shrubs, et cetera.
Catalogue also has complete listing of books
available on bonsai, flower arranging, garden-
ing, Japanese gardens, bamboo growing, and
botany. Also included is an instruction section
regarding bamboo ond how to grow it. Write

to The Bamboo Man, Box 331, Saddle River,
New Jersey.

Frame-Up. Good source for a much-needed item:
Raw or finished picture frames in ash, driftwood,
and compo with a variety of finishes available
for each wood. Mouldings vary from three-
quarters of an inch to four inches. A well—illus-
trated catalogue is ovailable from Hudson Man-
ufacturing Compony, Fairburn, Georgia.

Rediscover the mysterious lost art of the north-
west Indians. Many years ago, totem poles were
artistic characteristics among the tribes in British
Columbia and southern Alaska. Each figure
carved on the totem pole tells a story about the
clan that had it made; therefore, no two totem
pales were alike. Totem wood carving kits are
available from leeds Sweete Products, 3541-43
North Kenton Avenue, Chicago 41. (This com-
pany also has kits for making Kachina dolls,
reflecting the colorful art of our own Southwest
Indians.)

Easel ease. New and versatile Eosel-Art box
for watercolor or oils takes a canvas as large
as thirty-two inches, is a lightweight aluminum
design. Weighing only eight and a half pounds,
it folds to iust twenty-six inches. Each leg is
adiustable—from twenty-five to sixty inches.
You can carry everything in one hand: easel,
working canvas, and art-art-supply box. For
descriptive brochure, write to London Company,
Inc., Delavan, Wisconsin.

Not so mysterious Oriental printing and art
papers (and domestic papers, too)-—-at least a
variety of a hundred from which to choose-—
can be purchased by the ream, half ream, hun-
dred sheets, quire, or by the individual sheet.
Samples on request. listing, which includes
sizes and quantity prices as well as prices per
sheet can be secured by writing to Andrews/
Nelson/Whitehead, Inc., 7 Laight Street, New
York 10013.

GAMES

Easy to learn, fun to play. A new and exciting
card game, intended to stimulate abstract think-
ing at all age levels, Krypto is basically a game
of arithmetic, also a game of skill. The rules
remain the same whether it is played simply
with the intention of instructing children in the
application of basic arithmetic reasoning or on
a higher leVel of mental computation with

adults. For further information, write to Learn-
ing House, P.O. Box 1086, Burlington, Iowa
52602.

Family strategy. A line of adult games features
intriguing innovations in games such as Score-
A-Ward, Poker Keeno, Dealers Choice, Pass
the Buck, and a new game called, "The Shell
Game," based on the old "the-hand-quicker-
than-the-eye." A variety of adult bingo sets,
chess and checker sets, including chess tables,
are also well worth noting. For colorful cata-
lague, write to Transco Adult Games, Inc., 200
Fifth Avenue, New York 10010.

MAINTENANCE. STORAGE. UPKEEP

Weatherproof. A new latex paint, specially
formulated for use on stadium seats, pork
benches, picnic tables, resort buildings, and
other outdoor facilities, is available in three
colors: Stadium Green, Cabin Brown, and Brick
Red. It is fast drying and lead free, can be
applied to damp or dry wood. Prime coat not
needed whether surface is galvanized metal,
wood, or mosonry. For further information,
write to Department 10, Rockcote Paint Com-
pany, 200 Sayre Street, Rockford, Illinois, (ask
about "Weather-life") .

Aquatic weed killer! The greatest hindrance
to swimming, boating and fishing—underwater
weeds—can be brought under control. Elim-
inate algae, water weeds, scum, insect larvae
and other growths with Parko Algaecide #2 or
use Algaecide #1 for lily pads and reedy
growth you want to get rid of. Both are harm-
less to fish and wildlife. When addressing in-
quiries to the company, send the following in-
formation about your lake or pond: Size, loca-
tion, bottom, depth of water where growth is
located, rate of water flow, and a specimen of
the weeds. Also helpful would be a simple
sketch indicating inlet, outlet, weedy areas,
channel, and springs. For complete information,
write to Parke-Hill Chemical Corporation, 29
Bertel Avenue, Mount Vernon, New York.

High-speed mowing. A complete line of heavy-
duty rotary tractor-mowers offers faurteen mod-
els. Versatile—can be used for snow plowing,
blowing, bulldozing, dragging ball diamonds,
lawn sweeping, seed-spreading, et cetera. For
full information and descriptive brochure, write
to Halgon Products, Inc., Elm Grove, Wisconsin.

Smooth skating. Two new ice-surfacers incor-
porate the refinements of past resurfacers plus
new versatile features. Junior model was de-
signed for rinks with approximately five thou-
sand square feet of area. For complete in-
formation, write to Frank 1.. lambani and Com-
pany, 8041 East Jackson Street, Paramount,
California.

questionable water

419

Worry no more about

sources (except salt water}. Hylette Flask for
outdOor occasions or emergency use contains
purifying granules to be mixed with question-
able woter from pond, lake, river, or creek.
lnsures water free of taste and odor, harmful
bacteria, minerals, and radioactivity. Flask is
small enough to be carried in your pocket. For
further information, write to General Ionics
Corporation, Pittsburgh 15236.

Fungus proofing. A new four-color brochure on
Approved Athlete's Foot Control explains the
causes of athlete's foot, gives the medical back-
ground, and discusses prevention. Complete
specihcotions and details on Onax dispensers
are included and full-color photos of the Onax
footmot and foot sprayer are helpful guides.
For your brochure, write to Onox, lnc., Dept. BR,
121 Second Street, San Francisco 94105.

PROGRAM AIDS

From obaca cloth to zombies. Party cataIOgue
contains innumerable ideas for party themes
along with navel and new designs for decora-
tions, favors, et cetera. For instance? Snake-
charmer flutes for an Arabian Night fete,
political campaign buttons, Roaring Twenties
Ostrich feather tioras, Gay Nineties armbands.
All party ideas have appropriately designed
placemats, napkins, placecards, menu covers,
invitations, and restroom signs. For an attract—
ive catalogue, which also lists other party
themes, along with materials fer our important
holidays, write to Paradise Products, lnc., P.O.
Box 415, El Cerrito, California 94532.

Number four. A new pamphlet Fellowship, has
just been released by the church recreation de-
partment of the Baptist Sunday School Board.
Written by Cecil McGee, drama consultant for
the department, the pamphlet offers help in
planning and carrying out fellowships. In addi-
tion to sections on refreshments, closing
moments, and after-game fellowships, there are

little goblins,

spooky as could be . . .
One held a lighted torch,
and then there were three.

\

 

Children should not carry lighted candles

or torches. Battery powered lights are safest.
In colorful cartoon and rhyme, an accordion-
style folder on the 10 Little Goblins presents
the accident hazards that menace the happy
time of "Tricks and Treats." This catchy little
twelve-panel leaflet, only 3"-by-4", fits
easily into your promotiOnol mailings as well
as into the pockets of adults and children
who will be intrigued by the clever artwork
and humorous safety rhymes carrying a
punch. There is room for the imprint of your
agency, safety council, or service clubs. For
sample copies and ordering information,
write to Imagination, lnc., 4032 Maryland
Avenue, North, Minneapolis 27.

suggestions for more than thirty different fellow-
ships. The pamphlet is the latest in a new

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

RATES: Words in regular type $.15 each
Wprds in boldface type $.25 each
RATES: Minimum ad accepted .  $3.00

DEADLINES: Copy must be received by
the fifth of the month preceding date of
the issue in which ad is desired.

CORY: Type—or clearly printm- our message and the address to which you wish
replies sent. Underlme any wor 5 you want to appear in boldface type.

Send copy with remittance to:

RECREATION Classified Advertising, 8 West 8th Street, New York, New York 10011.

HELP WANTED

Recreation Director,
Bachelors Degree with ma-
jor in Recreation. Two
years experience preferred.
Write ofiiee of Jerry A.
Singer. City Manager, P.0.
Box 280, Cocoa Beach,

Florida, for job require-
ments and application form.

Recreational Therapist.
An exciting position will be
opening for a recreation
therapist in the adjunctive
therapy department of the
Psychosomatic and Psychi-
atric Institute of Michael
Reese Hospital. The de-
partment includes three
OT’s, three recreation work-
ers, and three group work-
ers serving a maximum in-
patient census of eighty-
seven psychiatric patients.
Supervision will be by a so-

cial group worker and since
the institute is a training
and research hospital there
is also opporunity for self
growth. The worker will
be primarily concerned with
adults in individual, group,
and milieu therapy pro-
grams. There is a maxi-
mum of three evenings per
week. If experienced, the
worker will have some ad-
ministrative and supervi-
sory functiOns. Salary com-
mensurate with experience.
If you are interested, please
contact Bernard Makowsky,
A. T. Dept. P&PI, Michael
Reese Hospital, 29th and
Ellis Avenue, Chicago, Ill.

Therapists for California
State Hos itals. Opportu-
nities to Fan and conduct
individual) patient recrea-
tion as well as special
group activities; modern

equipment and facilities.
Positions Open to college
graduates with major in
recreation or recreation
therapy including super-
vised field work. Salary
range: $486 to $590 a
month. Promotional oppor-
tunities, attractive employee
benefits. Write: Medical
Personnel Services. Cali-
fornia State Personnel
Board, 801 Capitol Mall,
Sacramento, California
95814.

Position Available: On
ten-hed Children’s Psychi-
atric Ward. Male preferred.
College degree in recrea-
tion or allied field required.

Write to: Wallace Vale,
Psychiatric Department,
Medical College Hospital,

55 Doughty Street, Charles-
ton, S. C.

The publisher name: no responsibility far service: or items advertised here.

420

 

series of pamphlets published by the Sunday
School Board's church recreation department
and written by department consultants. Other
pamphlets now available, free on request, are
Banquets by Adelle Carlson, Retreats and Sports
by Leon Mitchell. Write to the Sunday School
Board of the Southern Baptist Convention,
127 9th Avenue North, Nashville 3, Tennessee.

Safety First. A tentative standard titled Rec-
ommended Criteria for the Safe Loading of
Small Craft, has been published by the Amer-
ican Boot and Yacht Council. The council is
the technical society of the boating industry.
lts new standard applies to all recreation croft
less than twenty-six feet in length. A c0py of
the tentative standard may be obtained upon

request to ABYC, 420 Lexington Avenue, New
York 10017.

SPORTS AND MlSCEllAliEOUS EQUIPMENT

Goodbye, cinders! A bouncy rubberized-asphalt
running track could mean to runners what the
fiberglass pole means to vaulters. All-weather
rubber surface, three-quarters of an inch thick
on an asphalt and stone base, feels spongy,
"gives" about a quarter inch under pressure.
Very little maintenance needed. Freezing and
thawing have no effect. For additional in-

formation, write to Firestone Tire and Rubber,
1200 Firestone Parkway, Akron, Ohio.

lnstant outlets. Pre-wired master power control
outlet boxes multiply available outlets, provid-
ing rapid, safe, and low-cost power. All power
outlet boxes in the Wober “instant wiring line"
are rated at 15 amperes, 130 volts, and costom
units are also supplied to meet specific require-
ments. Standard Wober units provide up to
fifteen "U" ground outlets in a variety of sizes
and configurations, plus two wire, craw's foot,
and locking types. More than a hundred of
these units are described and illustrated in a
new eight-page color brochure (#564), avail-
able on request to Wober Electronics lnc., Han-
cock and Somerset Streets, Philodeiphia 19133.

Five in one. A "dry c0py“ machine that does
five different reproduction processes measures
only 16-by-13-by-5 inches despite its multiplic-
ity of operation. The Viewfox Dry Copier uses
no liquids or chemicals of any kind, will pro-
duce spirit masters, proiection transparencies,
offset masters, regular office cOpies, and will
also laminate. Any of these processes take four

seconds or less. For additional information,
write to V. P. Viewlex, Holbrook, N. Y.

No garden is complete without a fountain!
Religious figures, bird baths, shells, pedestals,
plaques are available in numerous sizes and
descriptions. Over one hundred pieces to
choose from. All pieces are available in Pom-
peion stone, Corrora stone, green antique, ar
plaster of paris. Fountain pumps are the seal-
ed recirculating type with lubrication not neces-
sary. They are resistant to c0rrosion, easy to
install, and operate completely submerged.
Detailed, handsome catalogue is available from

J. Giolli Studio, 1303-05 Clybourn Avenue,
Chicago 10.

Good as gold. New Gold Tee Mat is made from
strips of heavy fabric-impregnated rubber wov-
en on heavy-gauge, rust-resistant steel wire,
reinforced with steel plates On both sides to
preVent warping or buckling. Constructed op-
prOpriately for either right or left-hand golfers.
lmpervious to spikes, accommodates any type
tee. COmes in three standard sizes and special
sizes. Free literature may be obtained from
the American Mot Corporation, 2595 Adams
Street, Toledo 2, Ohio.

RECREATION

 

Making Headlines

Continued from Page 393

 

sequently, the broad recreation pro-
gram offered involves more than ninety-
five percent of the populace. Deep River
is also a temporary home for months on
end for foreign technicians and scien-
tists from India, Ghana, and many other
countries who come here for training
projects.

In 1956, the paper was retitled The
North Renfrew Times, for several neigh-
boring communities of Renfrew County
were using Deep River as their market-
place and for its many leisure-time ac-
tivities. Printing at that time was done
in a printshop located seventy miles
away, in the town of Shawville, located
in rural Quebec. This meant that the
news had to be sent off by bus each
Sunday morning. The paper is actually
printed on Tuesday and received in the
mail each Wednesday. The Times main-
tains many of the traditions of the
Digesk—volunteers, club notices, and
pithy bits of local humor and interest.
The Community Association still re-
tains ownership and is its publisher.
' The paper, varying from eight to six-
. teen pages, is tabloid in size and sells
for ten cents a copy 'or $3.00 a year.
Since September 1, 1964, the Times has
' been printed in Pembroke, Ontario,

thirty miles from Deep River.
‘ Friday is traditionally “paper day”———
the deadline for news which is supposed
to be in the hands of its managing edi-
tor, who “puts the paper to bed” over
the weekend. This job is shared by a
member of the editorial board, each tak-
ing his or her turn on a roster basis.

THE PAPER’S outgoing civic-minded
editorials comment or attack as the
editors see fit. It is spiced and garnish-
ed by witty and irate letters on a myriad
of subjects, ranging from the delights of
derriere pinching to the meaning of
freedom in Canada (not necessarily the
same thing). The Times relies on the
amateur part-time unpaid reporter on
which it has become traditionally de-
pendent. Advertising and subscriptions
realize a net annual surplus of about
$3,000. Earnings are set aside for fu-
ture newspaper development or other
long-term recreation projects. The
printer retains eighty percent of the

OCTOBER, 1964

advertising revenue to cover his print-
ing costs.

The breezy informality of the Times
is exemplified by the ad placed by the
local dentist when leaving for a Euro-
pean jaunt: “Notice: the dental office
of Dr. E. G. Sinclair will be closed from
May 8 to June 8 f0r much needed re-
pairs and renovations to premises and
personnel.” This easygoing attitude
pervaded to the printing of the paper it-
self. Annually, the entire press closed
shop, and the staff just went fishin’ for
three weeks. No paper, no news, no
income—but lots of fish! But no
longer! The paper has recently gone on
a full fifty-two week a year basis.

Continuity on the editorial board is.

assured for members are appointed on a
two-year basis. Cliques or vested inter-
est attitudes are minimized through the
policy of half the board retiring each
year. The owners give the editors wide
and sweeping powers and principally
maintain ground rules to protect from
libel and law suits.

The association aims to provide a
news media based on the principle that
“it must be the community’s conscience
” However, news-for-news’-
sake is a sound concept only where there
is mature consideration for taste and
morality.

and voice.

The transiency of the town’s inter-
national population results in a far-flung
out-of-town mailing list. Letters to the
editor may be mailed from Texas or
Timbuktu. The North Renfrew Times
goes all over the world and its pages
eventually wrap fish and chips in Britain
or start barbeques in Bombay, Washing—
ton, Paris, and Melbourne.

P.S. The North Renfrew Times now has
a “little sister”—the monthly White-
shell Gazette. Atomic Energy of Canada
Limited is now developing a new re-
search center, the Whiteshell Nuclear
Research Establishment at Pinawa,

Manitoba. Much of the WNRE person-
nel is being supplied from AECL’s
Chalk River Nuclear Laboratories and
formerly resided in Deep River. To
keep WNRE’S employes informed on
activities and progress at the new proj-
ect, John Leng, a Whiteshell staff mem-
ber, started publication in Deep River

of the Whiteshell Gazette 'in February

1963. It comes out monthly. #

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

LARGEST IMPORTER

of Judo and Karate Equipment

Husky, long-wearing "Lion Brand"
and “Victory Cup Brand” Judo and
Karate suits. Liberal discounts for
quantity orders. Complete library of
Judo, Karate and Aikido books. Also
emblems and jewelry.

Write for complete price list folder.

HONDA

ASSOCIATES, INC.

Dept. R, 50 West 47th Street -
N.Y., N.Y. 10036/Clrcle 5-0365

001V ’7'
I'D/MEL .
[VERY

[/7717]?
Elf/[037$

Dad! Mom! Please . . . lead the way to
the litter basket. Use car litter-bags,
too. Make it a family project to keep
streets, highways litter-free.

KEEP AMERICA BEAUTIFUL

Published as a ublic service in coo
eration with The Advertising Councrl.

works many wonders

 

421

Heyday in the Park
Continued from Page 389

 

from the year 1791 when the thousand-acre peninsula of
primeval forest with huge trees towering to the skies was
first seen by the Spanish explorer Jose Maria Narvaez
aboard the Santa Satumina. On June 13, 1792, Captain
George Vancouver entered the First Narrows in two small
boats. At that time, Stanley Park contained one Squamish
village named Whoi-whoi with a population of perhaps five
hundred Indians. It was located on what is now the park’s
Lumberman’s Arch area. The first white inhabitants were
squatters, European men with native wives, who sought a
solitary home under the trees near a beach.

Originally, a nameless wilderness, the parkland was
traversed only by deer trails which were used by wild ani-
mals and humans alike. The British Royal Engineers a cen-
tury ago made the first survey of its shoreline and declared
it to be an admiralty reserve to protect New Westminster,
then the capital of the Crown Colony of British Columbia,

from attack from the rear.

W BINDERS

Dated and Undated

0 Blue heavy simulated leather stamped in gold
0 Et‘lt'll holds one year’s issues

0 Opens flat for changes

RECREATION MAGAZINE
8 West Eighth Street. New York |00|l

  

Vote... and the choice is yours!
Don't vote . . . and the choice'is theirs!
Register . . . or you have no choice!

Published as a public service in coop-
eration with The American Heritage
Foundation and The Advertising Council.

    
     
         

422

 

Following creation of the city of Vancouver in 1886, the
first resolution passed by the first city council at its first
meeting was to petition the government of Canada to grant
the admiralty reserve to the new city as a park. Ottawa yield-
ed to the plea and leased the area to Vancouver for park
purposes on June 7, 1887. The lease was amended on August
31, 1908 for a term of ninety-nine years.

Park ranger Henry Avison was the park’s only employe
during its first year. He designed the first gardens, cut the
first trails, built rustic bridges. His wife started a 200. The
zoo was one bear chained to a stump. All went well until a
minister’s wife poked the bear in the ribs with her umbrella.
The hear was irate, his great paw swept the air, his claws
caught her long skirt. Gentlemen looked the other way. The
spectacle was never described in the park board minutes,

but a deep bear pit in the ground was made for the affronted
bruin.

TODAY, Stanley Park is Vancouver’s most popular attrac-

tion, and on an average sunny summer Sunday an esti-
mated fifteen hundred cars pass through the park and more
than fifty thousand visitors picnic at the massive wooden
tables. Cyclists, hikers, boat lovers, and swimmers also en-
joy this wooded area. One local resident has walked the
six-mile perimeter of the park annually on his birthday
since 1898. Last year, at the age of eighty-five, he did it
in two hours without stopping.

Stanley Park has several public monuments. A Japanese
War Memorial, dating from 1918, survived World War II,
and there is also a monument to Robert Burns and a monu—
ment commemorating the first visit to Canada of a U. S.
president. Warren G. Harding was in Vancouver July 23,
1923, shortly before his untimely death. The park includes
a Royal Canadian Air Force memorial garden and a drink-

ing fountain honoring Pauline Johnson, a Canadian Indian
poet.

Among the famed attractions of Stanley Park is the zoo
noted for its penguins, pandas, and polar bears. The park
also offers a totem pole glade; cricket fields; Malkin Bowl,
a great outdoor theater seating fourteen hundred; lawn
bowling; a pitch and putt course; shuffleboard; tennis; an
aquarium; horseshoes; and numerous other attractions.
Four reasonably priced eating places in the park are The
Pavilion, the Sports Tea Room, Ferguson Point Tea Room,
and Prospect Point Coffee Shop. The English Bay area of
the park offers some of the province’s best sea bathing at

Third Beach and Second Beach.

Of all the attractions in the park, none is so well known
and well loved as the Nine O’Clock Gun which came to Van-
couver from England in 1894 as an official curfew signal.
Now it booms over the city each evening and every Van-
couver resident checks his watch by it. The Nine O’Clock
Gun has sounded, with rare exceptions, since 1894. When-
ever it has failed to boom, the people of Vancouver believe
a catastrophe has occurred. A Signalman on Lion Gate
Bridge triggers the nightly blast of three pounds of gun-
powder rammed home by park board employe Frank Rance.

One of the world’s great parks, Stanley Park will continue
to delight visitors until its re-rededication in 2039. #

RECREATION

CONCERNING UPKEEP

 

BRIGHT AND WHITE

John Hanst

USE WHITE PAINT on your artificial
ice rink because it will give the
area greater lighting brilliance. Public
skating is made more pleasant by the
contrast that the brilliant white surface
gives to colorful costumes and decora-
tive lighting. The hockey program is
also improved by a more pleasing play-
ing surface. Should your rink be out-
doors, the hockey lines cannot be full
width or as brilliant, but on a sunny
day the white paint will give approxi-
mately a twenty-five percent increase in
capacity over a rink without white
paint. Beware of rinks with a dark sand

or dirty concrete surface.

TIPS FOR PAINTING YOUR RINK
0 Use one of the paints especially man-

ufactured for ice rinks. -

0 Mix paint thoroughly in a fifty-five
gallon open-end drum.

0 Strain paint before filling sprayer.
If no industrial sprayer is available, the
Zamboni will make an ideal paint
spreader.

1» Prepare ice not more than one-eighth
inch and with a very low temperature
or approximately ten-degree brine tem-
perature.

0 If the Zamboni is used as a spreader,
the ice must be cold enough so the over-
lap on the ends does not melt the first
coats.

o If hockey strips are going to be paint-
ed, apply two coats of clear water be-
fore painting and marking.

0 Use full nap rollers to speed up the
painting of the hockey lines.

MR. HANST is senior artificial ice-rink
refrigeration engineer for the Essex
County, New Jersey, Park Commission
and is responsible for the commission’s
indoor South Mountain Arena and out-
door Branch Brook Skating Rink. For
more on the construction and operation
of these two areas see “Two New Ice
Rinks,” RECREATION, October and No-
vember 1959. ( See also “The Iceman
Cometh!” Page 405.) Essex County’s

newest facility, a children’s zoo, is de-

scribed on Pages 402-404.
OCTOBER, 1964

o The completed painting job should
take five men approximately eight hours
from white to finish hockey striping. #

* l- * *-

Hio-Dine for Pools
THE US. Patent OHice recently is-

sued a basic patent for a new swim-
ming pool sanitizer registered under the
tradename H io-Dine. The new product
is based on iodine and meets standards
established by the U.S. Public Health
Service. It has been approved by seven-
teen states for use in public swimming
pools.

H io-Dine is non-irritating to the eyes,
ears, nose, and skin. It has no bleach-
ing effect on hair, swimming suits and
equipment, or suntan, and is non-stain-
ing, safe in storage, and unaffected by
water hardness. There is no taste, odor,
or bleaching effect. A single daily ap-
plication will maintain sanitary water
for twenty-four hours. H io-Dine makes
it possible for the first time to purify
swimming pool water with iodine, one
of the oldest and most effective sanitiz-
ing agents known. The new patent rep-
resents a breakthrough in sanitation
through the discovery of a method for
producing hypoiodous acid, the most
germicidal form of iodine known to
modern chemistry, in a manner which
permits its commercial use for the first
time. .

The Hio-Dine patent was issued to
Voldale, Inc., Long Island, New York.
Sole and exclusive rights to its name,
manufacture, and sale belong to Nease
Chemical Company, Inc., State College,
Pennsylvania.

Jottings on a Cuff

o A novel wooden “starter’s gun,” used
by Bob Snell, recreation director in
Lancaster, New Hampshire, consists of
two one-inch strips of board, 21/3”-by-
7”, hinged together at one end. When
the two pieces are slapped together, the
sound resembles the crack of a gun.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

 
   
      

  .r ‘ . ' "f
ti" , 9“ _ h . ‘
f-' I .. r
- I '
/ 2
4‘ -- v
, .3...

44-

TRATION

 
 

LYNN S. RODNEY,
University of Oregon

Here is a matchless source of professional
assistance on managing recreation prOgrams
and facilities. This authoritative source book
spotlights ready-to-apply practices—elimi-
nates guesswork by spelhng out specific,
tested procedures for any problem facing
recreation administrators today. While
major attention is focused on public recre-
ation agencies, philosophy and practices
applicable to administrative situations at
every level are investigated. Book supplies
working guidelines in such important areas
as educating the community on the need for
recreation programs, recruiting the staff,
administering the budget, etc. Answering a
long felt need, it fills the gaps in general
information related to all phases of recre-
ational operation. 1964. 475 pp., illus. $8.00

PIAYGRDUNDS:

Their Administration and Operation
GEORGE D. BUTLER

This standard guide covers every topic
essential to improved planning and admin-
istration of playground programs. Prepared
for the National Recreation Association, it
offers new ideas on playground function,
design, equipment and maintenance. Activi-
ties and programs are classified and illus-
trated and there is detailed guidance on

supervisory, personnel, and operating pro—
cedures. 1960. 3rd Ed. 513 pp., illus. $7.00

SOCIAL GAMES for RECREATION

EVELYNE BORST and ELMER D. MITCHELL

Popular book gives complete coverage of
indoor and outdoor social games-—over 700
activities for all occasions. Descriptions of
games are fully detailed, telling the leader
what materials he needs, the basic formation
for starting, and the rules and methods for
playing. Only the simplest equipment is
needed. 1959. 2nd Ed. 348 pp., illus. $5.50

_._USE THIS COUPON 'I'O ORDER._—l

THE RONALD PRESS COMPANY I
15 East 26th St., New York 10
Please send books checked below:

El Administration of Public Recreation,
Rodney @ 33.00

D Playgrounds, 3rd Ed., Butler @ $7.00

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

: El Social Games for RecEeation, 2nd Ed.,
I Horst-Mitchell @ 3.) .50
I

I

I

I

I

I

I

U Check enclosed I] Send COD

'2
m
E
e

3’
D.
s
G
In
in

R-l

 

ARTS 63 CRAFTS CORNER

D URING a recent all-day conference of the
Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies,
held in New York, hundreds of articles made by
the young and old served by these agencies were
on display in “Les Boutiques.” These ranged
from excellent weaving and gros point, beautiful
stoles, children’s wear, aprons, et cetera to simme,
inexpensive items designed to sell for less than $1
each. RECREATION’S roving reporter brought back
the three examples described below. The two
bookmarkers were priced at $.50 each; the pin at
3.40. (All looked like and were worth more.)
“Bennie the Bookworm” was sold individually or
in sets of three, displayed attractively in paper
holders stencilled “BOOKWORM.” These little
projects can be made by young or old, in centers
or on playgrounds. They are good ideas, too, for
Christmas bazaars, or other money-raising
events. Needless to say, the more carefully they
are designed and made, and the more thought
given to color combinations, the more attractive
the finished product will be.

BENNIE THE BOOKWORM

Materials: A strip of felt (any color) about an inch wide
and five inches long, a small patch of another color of felt,
sequins enough to make a line down Bennie’s back. (To
carry or display Bennie, staple two pieces of plain paper
together, leaving room for Benny to fit into, with only its
head showing.)

Directions: Cut felt into a “wormy” shape, tapering a bit
at the tail and thickening a bit for the head. Glue the small
patch onto the head to make a face. Glue or sew sequin
eyes. Add sequins down the middle of Bennie’s back. Use
different color schemes: blue body, green sequins; dark
green body, red sequins, et cetera. For a variation, try glue-
ing a thin, curved line of another color of felt down Ben-
nie’s back, instead of using sequins. (The sequins do add
Sparkle and glamorl)

 

MIT'er CRIPPER
Materials: Two pieces of felt cut into the shape of a small
mitten to make the front and back of the mitten gripper, two

Specialized Games Equipment
Active Games for Handicapped and Aged

Pre-Tested in Hospitals—Nursing Homes
Colorful. durable equipment each with point scores.
Can be used for instruction, physical conditioning.
contests, parties, and carnivals. Easily stored.

FOR ALL SEASONS
USE lNDOORS AND OUTDOORS
FREE BROCHURE

Recreational Research Institute
258 Broadway. New York, N. Y. IOOO'I ° REctor 2-4550

Dept. R

Retarded Children «
Can Be Helped

NOVEMBER 15-26 National Retarded Children's Week

 
    

424

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

pieces of cloth the same size as the felt to make the lining,
a pincurl clip, several small beads.

Directions: Line the hand part of each piece of felt, sewing
the lining from the wrist down, using a simple running
stitch. Insert the pincurl clip so that a prong goes into each
side of the mitten. Sew the sides of the mitten together at
the wrist. The felt wrists will hide the clip part of the pin-
curl clip. Sew the beads across the wrist for decoration.
Clip a line of mittens to a
little clothesline for diSplay,
using different colors. One
of these makes a very attrac-
tive bookmark clipped to the
page where you fell asleep.
For 'a variation, use largest
size clip, make the mitten
bigger, and use to clip notes,
letters et cetera on your desk.
Try using thin leather or
velvet!

 

LAPEL PIN
Materials: A glass lens out of a pair of old eyeglasses, deco-
rative paper, invisible glue, gold paint, pin fastener, cement.
Directions: Select paper that will make an interesting or
pretty design for a pin. Gift wrapping paper in abstract or
small flower designs makes a fine background. Cut it to fit
the glass exactly, and glue it, using invisible glue, to the in-
side of the glass. Then paint, very carefully, the under-
side of the glass (the paper side), including the beveled
edge of the glass. When throughly dry, cement the pin
fastener to the underside.

You’ll be surprised at how pretty and expensive looking
the finished product looks, if done carefully, and with taste.

GOURD CRAFT

GOURDS have been in use since the dawn of history. De-
pending on size, shape, and the thickness of shells,
gourds have provided man with dishes for his food, bottles
to carry water, drums to beat the rhythmic music for enj oy-
ment. Dipper gourds are still hung by the wells; swansneck
and other gourds are used for nests, homes for such birds
as wrens, martins, swallows, et cetera. Gourds make very
lovely giftware—salt dishes, lamps, vases, ornaments, and
countless table decorations. Where do you get them? You
can grow them! Inexpensive seed packets offer a variety of
types. Also available is a “starter” kit packet containing
seeds, instruction sheets, and other appropriate material.
A more elaborate kit is also available. If you do not wish to
indulge in horticulture, you can order the gourds all grown.
They can be purchased from September to March, come
green or partially cured. They are priced according to size.
Project books are also available along with separate in-
struction sheets. For full information, order blanks,'liter-

ature, and price sheets, write to: Joy Industries, P.O. Box
1016, Vista, California.

ARTY FACTS

0 To make a, folding rug-hooking frame, remove the top
from a wooden folding card table and attach a burlap back-
ing foundation to table side pieces with thumb tacks. To
make an oblong rug, screw in place two cross pieces of wood
three-quarter-inch thick and 1%-inch high and attach the
two sides of rug edge to these pieces. If a rug larger than
the table is being made, put the rug foundation on a frame
and attach the frame to the table top with two light C-clamps
and hook through the frame and table. Either way, the whole
unit can be folded and put aside with the frame still clamped

in place.—H. WRECC, Lyndhurst, New Jersey, in Modern
Maturity.

RECREATION

PERSONNEL

A STREAM BECOMES A TRICKLE

H. Douglas Sessoms, Ph.D.
'   FORTY-NINE col-

leges and uni-
versities took part
in this year’s an-
nual recreation stu-
dent survey con-
ducted jointly by
the National Recre-
ation Association and the Professional
Education Section of the American Rec-
reation Society. These institutions ex-
pected to graduate 667 recreation ma-
jors, 188 of whom are candidates for
graduate degrees. This is approximately
the same number of students graduating
in recreation per institution (13.6) as
there were in 1956. In fact, the average
number of recreation majors graduating
each year has not fluctuated more than
one student since 1956, although the
number of graduates from college has
increased twenty percent. Each year,

  

recreation gets a smaller slice of the
college graduating pie.

The need for a thorough study of the
reason for this declining number of rec-
reation majors is apparent. Is it be-
cause of the recruitment techniques
used to attract majors or is it the result
of an unattractive professional image?
Does recreation provide enough of a
challenge for the new breed of brighter
college students or are we experiencing
one of those inevitable plateaus periods
present in the growth of any social
movement? Whatever, the cause or
causes, we cannot afford to wait much
longer. The facts are undeniable—the
stream of recreation graduates has be-
come a trickle! #

DR. SESSOMS is chairman of the recrea-
tion curriculum at the University of
North Carolina and chairman of the
National Recreation Association’s Un-
dergraduate Education Subcommittee.

NUMBER OF RECREATION MAJORS AND STUDENTS GRADUATING IN
RE(REATION DURING 1964 BY NRA DISTRICTS

Students

BACHELOR
Number 3
 SCTTJOIS Tug 2'13 Eu 75

Ring 11.51% £3 .23 {9'
North East 3 118 11 11
Mid-Atlantic 5 142 18 19 51
Southern 11 467 72 4O 32
Great Lakes 13 627 97 55 94
Midwest 3 91 12 2
Southwest . 1 2 1 O 13
Pacific Northwest 3 85 10 5

Pacific Southwest 10* 359 67 59 61

TOTAL 49 1891 288 191 265

MASTER DOCTORATE TOTAL
E8 115:8 354% '28 E8 Er? 28 E8
5 2 o o o 125 16 13
3 6 7 o o 200 26 25
13 9 o o o 499 85 49
51 20 19 6 2 740 154 11
2 o o o o 93 14 2
5 1 o o o 15 6 1
2 1 o o o 90 12 6
32 19 23 2 2 448 101 so
118 58 54 8 4 2210 414 253

_*One school did not report its total enrollment, only the number graduating. .

COMPARISON OF NUMBER OF SCHOOLS REPORTING AND
DEGREES GRANTED 1956, 1958, 1960. 1961. 1964

Number of Schools

DISTRICT “mm”

1956 1958

New England 3 4 3

Middle Atlantic 7 8
Southern 12 10
Great Lakes 10
Midwest 1
Southwest

Pacific Southwest

Pacific Northwest

TOTAL

OCTOBER, 1964

1960 1961

Number of Degrees
Granted

1964 1956 1958 1960 1961 1964

3 49 81 38 43 29
5 78 121 92 63 51
11 86 104 121 116 133
13 182 211 172 134 231
3 0 8 5 6 16
1 3 3 12 21 7
10 17 125 107 61 181
3 29 30 51 42 18

49 444 683 598 486 666

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

NEW
PLAY

" SOULPTURES

CATALOG

MAW‘ w

 

wane '~;.1 “W”

DOD

_ 7   1
Creative 7 t
Playthings, Inc. 
91111103011 2. N. J. ’

 

AIDS T0 LIGHTE-N
YOUR LOAD °‘"°“°‘"

more than
FREE

40 years'
Instructional

experience
FILM S

for classrrs.
meetings. workshops

Workshop
Programs

Teaching Aids
for

LEATHERCRAFT
and 23 other popular crafts

135 skilled instructors in 100 major
cities ready to help you!

wet... today for FREE CATALOG

Please speci LEATHERCRAFT

or HA DICRAFI'

andqca

LEATHER

AMERICAN HANDICRAFI'S CO.
(A Division of Tandy Corp.)

P. 0. Box 791 FM Fort Worth. Texas

 

425

 

NEW PUBLICATIONS

 

The Challenge of Megalopolis, Wolf
von Eckardt. Macmillan Company, 60
Fifth Avenue, New York 100”. Pp.
126, illustrated with maps, charts, dia-
grams. $3.95 (paper, $1.95).

HE THING that shook me most at the
World’s Fair 1964- was the giant
electric sign of an insurance company
which showed the population of the
United States at that very moment. Each
five seconds, the number increased by
one. For minutes I watched this popu-
lation march and, feeling crowded, I
turned away. I get somewhat the same
feeling when I read books like The
Challenge of Megalopolis. Having re-
viewed the. original Megalopolis tome
by Jean Gottman and found it crammed
with information but encyclopedic to
read, I welcomed the abbreviated and
breezy air of this version. The charts
and graphs are striking and effective,
the text is mercifully brief. Many of
the points made about megalopolis, that
urban reach from Boston to Washing-
ton, D.C., are anything but surprising;
namely, the transport strangulation, the
concentration of business and iinance,
the high-income levels, cultural head-
quarters, et cetera. 0n the other hand,
the news that woodland covers half of
megalopolis, that deer are over-abun-
dant, that only twenty percent of meg-
alopolis is already urbanized, and that
megalopolis is actually one of the fore-
most agricultural areas in the United
States should raise the eyebrow of the
subway rider even if he is of profes-
sorial rank.

Mr. von Eckardt seems to be saying
“Look, boys, we’ve got a good thing
going here. Let’s not ruin it.” He urges
that we take the necessary steps to cope
with our problems without radically
changing our present patterns. As a na-
tive of New York City and a pavement
pounder from way back, I take great
encouragement from planners and
thinkers who see bright hope in our old
crowded cities. Mr. von Eckardt is one
of these. ——loseph E. Curtis, Commis-
sioner of Recreation and Parks, White

Plains, New York.

Creative Leadership in Recreation,
Howard G. Danford. Allyn and Bacon,

150 Tremont Street, Boston 11. Pp.
395. $9.95.

T he author had two purposes in
mind: one, a text for use by insti-
tutions of higher learning in the prepa-
ration of the creative leader in recrea-

426

0

tion and, two, a book to assist the
leaders presently employed to under-
stand their responsibilities more fully
and to discharge them in such a manner
as to meet successfully the challenge
which leisure makes to the human spirit.
He establishes a good case for leader-
ship as the most important single factor
in the successful operation of a program
of recreation. However, he goes much
further in defining and discussing the
nature of leadership. Indeed, this is the
most current and the most extensive
treatment of leadership that has been
presented to the recreation field.

In addition to the very valuable
material and information elsewhere in
the book, every professional recreation
worker would do well to study and take
seriously Mr. Danford’s discussion of
“The Leader as a Professional Man.”
He points out that, in the final analysis,
the public judges a profession by what
it knows about the members. He points
out that the public will respect the pro-
fession and accord to it the dignity and
status it should have only when its mem-
bers conduct themselves in such a man-
ner as to merit respect. The recreation
profession will come of age when its
leadership commands respect by its
performance on the job and when per-
sonal behavior and appearance, on and
off the job, deserve it. If we have ac-
quired maturity, we will act like mature,
thoughtful individuals, and our man-
ners and behavior will reveal it, The
level and quality of recreation will be
found in the level and quality of leader-
ship. In brief, the story of recreation
will be the story of its leadership. Mr.
Danford, an experienced educator and
professional recreation leader, has made
a significant contribution in this
publication. —W. C. Sutherland, Na-
tional Recreation Association, Recrea-
tion Personnel Service.

Religion and Leisure in America,
Robert Lee. Abingdon Press, 201 Eighth

Avenue South, Nashville, Tennessee,
Pp. 263. $4.50.

COMMITTEE in the Department of
Evangelism of the National Coun-

cil of Churches has been working for
over two years to expand church lead-
ers’ understanding of the nature of new
leisure. Dr. Robert Lee and colleagues
at the Institute of Ethics and Society at
San Francisco Theological Seminary
sought to give the committee a summary
of the information and interpretation

currently available. “This research,”
says the introduction to the book, “fur-
nished the ‘background for Dr. Lee’s
reflection on the deeper issues involved,
both sociological and theological.”
Thus, the book is a discussion, based on
current reports and commentary, to
give “perspective on the problem of
leisure from a contemporary, historical
and theological standpoint.”

It is oriented more to sociology than
to the recreation movement as such. For
that reason, it may provide a good in-
troduction for those who are interested
in the general field and who have little
firsthand knowledge of many of the
sources Dr. Lee has used. It is designed
to supply a broad background for fu—
ture action rather than suggestions on
where to go for specific help. Laymen
as well as church leaders should find it
readable and timely—Anne L. New,
Special Assistant to the Executive Di-

rector, National Recreation Associa-
tion.

Culture in Florida, Robert Smith.
Florida State University and Florida

Development Commission, Tallahassee.
Pp. 149. Paper, $1.50.

TEN CITIES were selected for this
study of the visual and performing
arts in Florida. The occasion for the
study was the multiplying of organiza-
tions, their problems and needs. Robert
Smith, who has served on National Rec-
reation Association Advisory Commit-
tees, has taken into account the active
participation of public recreation agen-
cies in the proliferation of the arts
groups and activities in the Sunshine
State. The accumulation of evidence
noted in Mr. Smith’s study pointed to
the advisability of establishing a state
arts council whose function would be
to deal with problems relating to cul-
tural organizations and programs.
Florida has recently established a State
Arts Council. This study of the visual
and performing arts will be an espe-
cially handy guide to planning and ad-
visory groups.

IN BRIEF

PINE NEEDLE CRAFT, Adelaide M. Loof-
borough. Great Outdoors Publishing
Company, 4747 28th Street North, St.
Petersburg, Florida 33714. Pp. 68.
Paper $1.50. This is an attractive
pamphlet with numerous ideas on a
little-known craft: using needles and
raliia for many projects. This is found

RECREATION

beautifully exemplified in the work at
our American Indians. This, then, is
adapting an old art to our modern
needs. The many designs are ingenious.
The good photographs and pen illustra-
tions should stimulate the imagination
to use these ideas in many ways. A
supplier is listed. A good book for camp
and recreation workers.

HAND BOOKBINDING, Aldren A. Watson,
Reinhold Publishing Company, 430
Park Avenue, New York 10022. Pp. 93.
Paper, $6.00. While the bookbinding

craft is an exacting one, it is compara-
tively simple to do and the directions
given in this manual are fully explained
with large excellently drawn diagrams.
A short interesting history of bookbind-
ing is also included. This is the only
book I have come across that shows how
to make the tools and equipment which
are used, and also how to make the slip
case and box for a set and the labels.
There is also a good index of suppliers.
The front endpapers of the book have
large line drawings of all the necessary
tools, while the back endpapers present
a sketch of a workbench pr0perly set
up. There is a section on repairing
sheet music and rebinding old books,
as well as making new ones. Craft
teachers, camp instructors, recreation

leaders will all find this a helpful book.
-——M. B. Cummings.

CREATIVE CRAFTS WITH ELEMENTARY
CHILDREN, Else Bartlett Cresse, F. A.
Owen Publishing Company, Dansville,
New York. Pp. 80. Paper $3.75 (paper-
bound $2.75). This is a large attrac-
tive book covering twelve crafts to “en-
courage creativity.” The author stresses
the need for children to have three-di-
mensional experiences as well as the
“art on paper” ones, and describes the
use of many media such as papier-
maché, clay, string, yarn, thread, wood
shavings, plaster, seeds and cereals,
driftwood, wood, foil, paint, and many
others. A good book for reference ma-
terial for workers with children.

A RUSSIAN SONG BOOK, Rose N. Rubin
and Michael Stillman, Editors. Random
House, 457 Madison Avenue, New York
10022. Pp. 197. Paper, $1.95. Few
folksong collections are published in as
compact and usable way as this one. It
is a wonderfully handy compilation of
forty- four traditional and current folk-
songs. They are not propaganda. Lyr-
ics are in Russian, transliteration, and
English. Many of these tunes were used
in the works of great Russian compos-
ers. They are good for all time and for
all people. The piano accompaniments
are simple and expert. Guitar chords
are indicated and a list of recordings

included. A wealth of Russian songs at
a bargain price!

OCTOBER, 1964

 

BOOKS 8: PAMPHLETS RECEIVED

GAMES, PUZZLES, HOBBIES

Aquarium Book for Boys and Girls, Alfred Mar on.
Scribner’s Sons, 597 5th Ave., New York 1 17.
Pp. 209. Paper, $1.25.

Book of Animal Riddles, Bennett Cerf. Random
House, 457 Madison Ave., New York 10022.
Unpaged. $1.95.

Book of New York Herald Tribune Crossword Puz-
zles, The. Hawthorn Books, 70 5th Ave., New
York 10011. Pp. 100. Paper, $2.95.

Book of Riddles, Bennett Cerf. Random House,
g579éVlodison Ave., New York 10022. Pp. 62.

Collecting Racks Minerals Gems and Fossils, Rus-
sell P. MocFoll. Hawthorn BaokS, 70 5th Ave.,
New York 10011. Pp. 156. $3.95.

Finger Playtime, Mary Jackson Ellis and Frances

Lyons. T. S. Denisan, 321 5th Ave. 5., Min-
neapolis. Pp.81. $3.00.

Folding Paper Toys, Shari Lewis and Lillian Op-
penheimer. Stein Er Day, 7 E. 48th St., New
Yark 10017. Pp. 93. $3.95.

Fun for the Money, Moxey Brooks. Scribner’s
§3n5§597 5th Ave., New York 10017. Pp. 96.

Fun Projects for Dad and the Kids, David R. Stiles.
Arco Publ., 480 Lexington Ave., New York
10017. Pp. 96. Paper, $1.95.

Games for the Elementary School Grades, Hazel
A. Richardson. Burgess Publ., 426 6th Street,
Minneapolis 15. Kit of 144 Cords. $2.50.

Gesell Institute Party Book, The, Frances L. llg,
Louise Botes Ames, Evelyn W. Goodenough, lr-
ene B. Andersen. Dell Books, Box 2291, Grand

ge6rgrol Post Office, New York 10017. Pp. 115.

How We Do It Game Book (3rd ed. 1. AAHPER,
1201 16th St. N.W., Washington, D.C. 20036.
Pp.339. $3.50.

How to Win at Solitaire, Walter 8. Gibson.
Doubleday, 575 Madison Ave., New York
10022. Pp. 134. Poper,$1.95.

Hoyle: How to Play Over 175 Games, Paul H. Sey-
mour. Albert Whitman, 560 Lake St., Chicago
6. Pp. 352. Paper, $1.25.

Juggling, Rudolph Dittrich. Sterling Publ. 419
Park Ave. 5., New York 10016. Pp. 124. $2.95.

Knitting for Everyone, Martha Dreiblott. Double-
day, 575 Madison Ave., New York 10022. Pp.
33 . Poper,$1.25.

Knitting Without Needles, Peggy Boehm. Sterl-
ing Publ., 419 Park Ave. 5., New York 10016.
Pp. 124. $2.50.

Manual for Cain Collectors and Investors, Bur-
ton Hobson and Fred Reinfeld. Sterling Publ.,
419 Park Ave. S., New York 10016. Pp. 160.
Paper, $1.50.

Modern Guide to Pocket Billiards, The, Luther

Lossiter. Fleet Publ., 230 Park Ave., New York
10017. Pp. 121. $3.95.

Modern Projects in Wood, Metal and Plastics,
Patrick E. Spielmon. Bruce Publ., 400 N. Broad-
woy, Milwaukee 1. Pp. 160. $5.00.

150 Puzzles in Cr pt-Arithmetic, Moxe'y Brooks,
Dover Publ., 18 Vorick St., New York 10014.
Pp. 72. Paper, $1.00.

1800 Riddles, Enigmos and Conundrums, Darwin
A. Hindmon. Dover Publ., 180 Vorick St., New
York 10014. Pp. 154. Paper, $1.00

Pine Needle Craft, Adeloids M. Loofborough.
Great Outdoors Publ., 4727 28th St. N., St.
Petersburg, Fla. 33714. Pp. 68. Paper, $1.50.

Play Activities for Elementary Grades, Charles
Nogel, Ph.D. C. V. Mosby, 3207 Washington
Blvd., St. Louis 3. Pp. 143. Spirolbound, $2.75.

Ploy-Game Song Book, The, Gullon Bornemark.
Allyn and Bacon, 150 Tremant St., Boston 11.
Pp. 24 (plus two 7-inch 33rpm recordings).
Paper, $2.76.

Successful Conjuring, Arco Publ., 480 Lexington
Ave., New York 10017. Pp. 251. $4.50.

Through the Alimentary Canal with Gun and
Camera, George S. Choppell. Dover Publ., 180
gprégk St., New York 10014. Pp. 114. Paper,

Teacher's Handbook of Indoor and Outdoor
Games, Hor D. Edgren and Joseph J. Gruber.
Prentice-Hal , Englewood Cliffs, NJ. Pp. 224.
Spirolbound, $5.95.

Test Your Chess, Gerald Abrohoms. London House
and Maxwell, 122 E. 55th St., New York 10022.
Pp. 107. $2.95.

World of Pen Pals, The, E. Max Paris. Down Publ.,
Box 8, New York 10001. Pp. 127. $.35.

World Chess Championship 1963: M. M. Botvin-
nik v. Tigron Petrosion. Arca Publ., 480 Lex-
ington Ave., New York 10017. Pp. 218. $4.50.

Woodcraft, "Nessmuk." Dover Publ., 180 Vorick
St., New York 10014. Pp. 105. Paper, $1.00.

Young Sportsman’s Guide to Photography, The,
G. Howard Gillelon. Thos. Nelson, 18 E. 4lst
St., New York 10017. Pp. 96. $2.75.

a match
grade

nHeata
reasonable
price

  
   
     
  

Here is an exceptional intermediate
target rifle by Anschutz, famed builders
of the smallbore rifles used in inter-
national matches by mare competitors
and by more of the winners—than all
other makes combined.

The Model 64 has many special fea-
tures that add up to X-ring accuracy:
a satin smooth single-shot action;
trigger adjustable for pull, creep and
backlash; a precision rifled and hand-
lapped medium-heavy barrel. Target
stock has raised cheek-piece, deeply
fluted comb, checkered contour pistol
grip. Beavertail fore-end has long rail
with instantly adjustable sliding
swivel; adjustable rubber butt plate.

The Model 64 target rifle costs only
$75.00. (Sights extra) Left-hand stock
slightly more. Price subject to change. ,
For FREE Savage catalag write: Savage '
Arms, Westfield, Massachusetts 01085.

Savage

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 427

GARDENING and FLORAL ARRANGING

Art of Flower Arrangement, The, Norman Ed-
wards. Viking Press, 625 Madison Ave., New

York 10022. Pp. 191. $10.00.

Best of Show in Flower Arrangements (Book 31.
Allied Publ., 2485 E. Sunrise Blvd., Fort Laud-
erdale, Fla. Pp. 39. Paper, $1.95.

Create New Flowers and Plants,
Doubleday, 575 Madison Ave.,
10022. Pp.212. $4.95. M

nin Guidebook, Ma T. Arny. Maco ago-

602.11% Cgorp., 757 3rd Arte”. New York 10017.
Pp. 127. Paper, $.75.

Junior Flower Shows, Katherine N. Cutler. M. Bar-
rows, 425 Park Ave. 5., New York 10016. Pp.
145. $3.50.

Lawns and Ground Covers, Lane Books, Menlo
Park, Calif. Pp. 112. Paper, $1.95.

Max Schling Book of Indoor Gardening, The,

Dorothy Brandon and Alfred F. Scheider. Ivan
Obolensky, 341 E. 62nd St., New York 10021.

Pp. 314. $6.50.

Peacock Manure and Marigolds, Janet Gillespie.
Alfred A. Knopf, 501 Madison Ave., New York
10022. Pp. 184. $3.95.

John James.
New York

SCIENCE

All About Aviation, Robert D. Loomis. Random
House, 457 Madison Ave., New York 10022.

Pp. 139. $1.95.

All About Rockets and Space Flight, .Harold L.
Goodwin. Random House, 457 Madison Ave.,
New York 10022. Pp. 143. $1.95.

Discovering the Universe, Bernard and Joyce Low-
ell. Harper Cr Raw, 49 E. 33rd St., New York

10016. Pp. 136. $3.95.

Educators Guide to Free Science Materials (4th
ed.). Educators Progress Service, Box 497,
Randolph, Wis. Pp. 313. Paper, $7.25.

EXpIoring Light and Color, Charles D. Neal. Chil-
drens Press, Jackson Blvd. and Racine Ave.,

Chicago 7. Pp. 156. $4.50.

Fun and EXperiments with Light, Mae and Ira
Freeman. Random House, 501 Madison Ave.,
New York 10022. Pp. 58. $1.95.

Inclement Weather Activities, Jerry G. Edwards.
Arco Publ., 480 Lexington Ave., New York

10017. Pp. 82. $2.50.

Making Friends with the Stars (rev.), Theodore
A. Smits. Barnes C7 Noble. 105 5th Ave., New
York 10003. Pp. 144. Paper, $1.25.

New Dictionary of Astrology, Sepharial's. Arco
Publ., 480 Lexington Ave., New York 10017.

Pp. 157. $4.50.

150 Science Experiments Step-by-Step, Judith
Viorst. Bantam Books, 414 E. Golf Rd., Des
Plaines, l||. Pp. 180. $.60.

Pioneer Astronomers, Navin Sullivan. Atheneum
Publ., 162 E. 38th St., New York 10016. Pp.
156. $3.75.

Project Gemini, Michael Stoiko. Holt, Rinehart
and Winston, 383 Madison Ave., New York
10017. Pp. 128. $3.95.

Proiects and Experiments in Science, James V. Pa-
cilia. T. S. Denison, 321 5th Ave. S., Minne-
apolis 15. Pp. 86. $3.95.

Science Activities Dr. Helen Challand and Eliza-
beth Brandt. érossei & Dunlap, 1107 Broad-
way, New York 10010. Pp. 121. $4.95.

Science Activities from A to 2, Dr. Helen Chal-
land and Elizabeth Brandt. Grosset Er Dunlap,
1107 Broadway, New York. Pp. 220. $4.95.

Science Book and Experiment Kit of Magnets.
McLaughin Brothers, 1107 Broadway, New York
10010. Pp. 64. $1.95.

Science Experiments with Sound, Harry Sootin.
W. W. Norton, 55 5th Ave., New York 10003.
Pp. 95. $2.90.

Stargazing, Janet Nickelsburg. Burgess Publ.,
426 S. 6th St., Minneapolis 15. Pp. 98. $3.85.

Solar Sgstem, The, Angelo Rocca. Meredith Press,
{£195 Locust St., Des Moines 3, Iowa. Pp. 58.

Study of Splashes, A, A. M. Worthington. Mac-
rsn‘élgasn, 60 5th Ave., New York 10011. Pp. 169.

True Book of Bacteria, The, Anne Frahm. Chil-
dren’s Press, Jackson Blvd. C7 Racine Ave., Chi-
caga 7. Pp. 48. $2.00.

Your Guide to the Weather, George L. Gontzlaar.
Barnes and Noble, 105 5th Ave., New York
10003. Pp. 242. Paper, $1.50.

STORYBOOKS

About Helpers Who Work at Night, Elaine Hoff-
man ond Jane Hefflefin er. Melmont Publ.,

Jackson Blvd. (3 Racine ve., Chicago 7. Pp.
30. $2.50.

Abu Kasslm's Slippers, Nanc Green. Follett Publ.,
;%9W. Washington Blv ., Chicago 7. Pp. 32.

All By Myself, William Wondrisko. Holt, Rinehart
Cr Winston, 383 Madison Ave., New York
10017. Unpaged. $2.50.

428

 

Alphabet for Joanna, poem by Horace Gregory.
Holt, Rinehart Cr Winston, 383 Madison Ave.,

New York 10017. Unpaged. $2.50.

Alphabet Tale, The, Jan Carten. Random House,
gg7sgladison Ave., New York 10022. Unpaged.

And Now We Call Him Santa Claus, Kay Tutt.
Lothrop, Lee C7 Shepard 419 Park Ave., New
York 10016. Unpaged. $2.75.

Andrew Alsop's Ambition, Claude.
Potter, 56 E. 66th St., New York 10021.

paged. Paper, $1.50.

Ant and Bee and the Rainbow, Angela Banner.
Franklin Watts, 575 Lexington Ave., New York
10022. Unpaged. $1.50.

Apple, The, Dick Bruna. Follett Publ., 1010 Wash-
ington Blvd., Chicago 7. Pp. 32. $1.00.

Barbie's Hawaiian Holiday, Bette Lou Maybee.
Random House, 457 Madison Ave., New York
10022. Pp. 172. $1.95.

Barbie and Ken, Cynthia Lawrence and .Bette Lou
Maybee. Random House, 457 Madison Ave.,
New York 10022. Pp. 186. $1.95.

Bigger Giant, The, Nancy Green. Follett Publ.,
 Washington Blvd., Chicago 7. Pp. 32.

Big Swat, H. D. Francis. Follett Publ., 1010 Wash-
ington Blvd., Chicago 7. Pp. 192. $2.95.

Book to Begin on American Inventions, A, Les-
lie Waller. Holt, Rinehart Er Winston, 383 Mad-
iSOn Ave., New York 10017. Unpaged. $2.50.

Christmas ls for Everyone, Norman Shirck. Augs-
burg Publ., 426 S. 5th St. Unpaged. $1.50.

Circus, The, Dick Bruna. Follett Publ., 1010 Wash-
ington Blvd., Chicago 7. Pp. 32. $1.00.

Cock a Doodle Doo, Ed Emberley. Little, Brown,
34 Beacon St., Boston 6. Unpaged. $2.50.

Did You Say Dogs? Tony Palazzo. Garrard Publ.,
232 oScarsdale Ave., Scarsdale, N. Y. Pp. 43.
.5 .

Dinosaurs of the Earth, John Raymond. Child
guigg Publ., Island Park, New York. Pp. 93.

Dolls, Bettina Ehrlich. Ariel Books, 19 Union
Sq. W., New York 10003. Unpaged. $1.95.

Dolls, Antonia Fraser. Putnam's Sons, 200 Madi-
son Ave., New York 10016. Pp. 128. $4.95.

Farm Animals, Grete Mannheim. Random House,
gg7ngadisan Ave., New York 10022. Unpaged.

Feast on Sullivan Street, Betty Miles. Alfred A.
Knopf, 501 Madison Ave., New York 10023.
Pp. 48. $2.95.

First Comers, The, Alice Marriott. Longmans,
Green, 119 W. 40th St., New York 10018. Pp.
246. $4.50.

Fish, The, Dick Bruna. Follett Publ., 1010 Wash-
ington Blvd., Chicago 7. Pp. 32. $1.00.

Five Pennies, Barbara Brenner. Random House,
gg72g/ladison Ave., New York 10022. Unpaged.

Hugh's Zoo, Elizabeth Maclntyre. Random House,
ggTOSAadison Ave., New York 10022. Unpaged.

Hurricane Guest, Sam and Beryl Epstein. Ran-
dom House, 457 Madison Ave., New York
10022. Pp. 57. $1.95.

I Got a Camel for Christmas, Al Swiller. Grosset
£1 Dunlap, 1107 Broadway, New York 10010.

Clarkson N.
Un-

Unpaged. $3.00.

It Doesn't Always Have to Rhyme, Eve Merriam.
Antheneum, 162 E. 38th St., New York 10016.
Pp. 83. $3.25.

 

 

Jambo, African Balloon Safari, Anthony Smith.
E. P. Duttan, 201 Park Ave. S., New York
10003. Pp. 272. $6.50.

Kitten Nell, Dick Bruna. Follett Publ., 1010
Washington Blvd., Chicago 7. Pp. 32. $1.00.

Ko of Menehuneland, Gene and Connie Erger.
Charles E. Tuttle, Rutland, Vt. Pp. 48. $3.50.

Land That Time Forgot, The, Edgar Rice Bur-

roughs. Dover Publ., 180 Varick St. N
York 10014. Pp. 52. Paper, $2.00. ' ew

Let's Find Out about Houses, Martha and Charles

ShODD- Franklin Watts, 575 Lex- to .
New York 10022. Pp_42.$l.95. mg n Ave,

Let's Imagine Colors, Janet Wolfe and Bernard

Owett. E. P. Duttan, 201 Pa k A . .
Yark10003. Unpaged. $3.50.r W S, New

My Little Library: Dolls, Games, Rhymes three
books in kit, unpaged, 2.95; Fire in °
Trains, Cars, three boolfs ' gmes'
$2.95; Little Dimity, Big Gumbo, Big and Lit-
tle, three books in kit, unpaged, $2.95. Rut-
ledge Press, 551 5th Ave., New York.

My Skyscraper City: A Child's View of New York,

Penny Hamond. Doubleda , 575 M d.
New York 10022. Pp. 60. £3.25 0 isan Ave.,

Mystery of the Disappearing Cars, The, Cora
Cheney. Random House 457 Madison Ave.
New York 10022. Pp. 14 . $3.25. '

Night It Rained Toys, The Do oth
Follett Publ., 1010 w' r y

Chicago 7, Pp. 32. $2.85.

Orange Fairy Book, The, Andrew Lang. Random

House, 457 Madison A e. N
Unpaged. $2.95. v , ew York 10022.

Peter's Three Friends, Winifred Bromhall. Ran-

dom HOUSE. 457 Madisa A _
10022 Unpaged. $3.00. n ve, New York

See This Little Line? Jane H. Yolen. David Mac-

Kay, 119 W. 40 St., New Yak 10 . -
paged. $3.50. r 018 U“

Spiders, Phyllis Jean Perry. T. S. Denison 321
5th Ave. S., Minneapolis 15. Unpaged. $1.50.

Story of a Hippopotamus, The, Alfred G. Milotte.

Random House. 457 Madison A e,
10022. Pp. 114, $3.25. V . New York

Styles for Dolls, Lucy Cunningham and Beth
Herbst. Calico Print Shop, 116 S. Hillside,

Wichita l 1, Kansas. Pp. 4']. Spiralbound, $3.50.

Stuff and Nonsense, Edgar Parker. Panth
333 6th Ave., New York 10014. Pp. 32. $363.83:

Time of the Great Freeze, Robert Silverberg. Holt
Rinehart Er Winston, 383 Madison Ave., New
York 10017. Pp. 192. $3.50.

Tilly and Tess, Dick Bruna. Follett Publ., 1010
WashingtOn Blvd., Chicago 7. Pp. 32. $1.00.

Uncle Debunokel, or the Barely Believable Bear,
Phoebe Erickson. Random House, 457 Madi-
son Ave., New York 10022. Unpaged. $3.00.

Voices of the World, lrving Wolfe, Beatrice Per-
ham Krone and Margaret Fullerton. Follett

Publ., 1010 Washin tan Blvd., Ch' 7. P .
224. $2.80. 9 Icago p

Voices of America, lrving Wolfe, Beatrice Per-
ham Krone and Margaret Fullerton. Follett

Publ., 1010 Washin ton Bl d., Ch' . P .
224. $2.72. 9 v lcogo 7 D

What Was Bugging OI' Pharaoh? Charles M.

Schulz. Warner Press, Anderson, Ind. Un a ed.
Paper, $1.00. p 9

What Shall I Do? Book, The. Rand McNally, 8255

Central Park Ave., Skokie, Illinois. Pp. 112.
Paper, $1 .00.

That Happy Feeling of Thank You, Peter Still-
mon. C. R. Gibson, Knight St., Norwalk, Conn.
Unpaged. $1.95.

What Can You Do With a Pocket? Eve Merriam.
Alfred A. Knopf, 501 Madison Ave., New York
10022. Unpaged. $3.50.

War Cry of the West (the story of Power River),
Nathaniel Burt. Holt, Rinehart £1 Winston, 383
Madison Ave., New York 10017. Pp. 84. $3.00.

Stephenson.
Washington Bldg.,

YOUTH

Developing Your Personality, Martin Panzer.
Coward-McCann, 200 Madison Ave., New York.
Pp. 256. $4.50.

Discipline in the Teens, Rudolph M. Wittenberg.
Association Press, 291 Broadway, New York

10007. Pp. 64. Paper, $1.50.

How to Grow Up In One Piece, Robert Paul Smith.
Harper 6' Row, 49 E. 33rd St., New York 10016.
Pp. 40. $2.95.

Maturity and Me, Dr. Marlon Cuthbert. Bureau
of Communications, Natl. Board YWCA, 600
Lexington Ave., New York. Pp. 48. Paper, $.85.

Moving into Manhood, W. W. Bauer. Doubleday,
575 Madison Ave., New York I0022. Pp. 10 .

$2.95.

Young Men in a Hurry (Australian sports), Harry
Gordon. Sportshelf, P.O. Box 634, New Rochelle,
N. Y. Pp. 164. $6.00.

Young Sportsman's Guide to Dogs, John R. Falk.
Thomas Nelson, 18 E. 4lst St., New York 10017.
Pp. 96. $2.75.

RECREATION

 

HILLERICH & BRADSBY C0.. Lom‘sw‘He, Ky.

 

~ ’When‘wfiting to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

Pamphlet jerky-The Performing Art:- as Recreatlon

watch #01:.

 

Ofeombmmoi,
RECREATION

Introducing our new title

No. V—OPERA IS RECREATION

Order in Quantity Lots:

No. I -—\IUSIC IS RECREATION
No. II —DRAMA IS RECREATION
No. III—DANCE IS RECREATION
No. IV—POETRY IS RECREATION

Use with

 

Your staff Your board or commission

Advisory Committees Citizen committees

Clubs Planning groups
And for

Fundraisng Publicity Telling your story

Program Planning Education Selling recreation

Training of volunteers Pl‘OlllOtiOllOf bond issues

Current prices as applied to each title

Single copies, $1.00; except Poetry, $.50 0 Set of five titles, $3.50

I] to 261 copies of the same title, $.85 each; Poetry, 3.40 each 0
25 or more, 3.75 each; Poetry, $3.35 each
100 or over of the same title, 360 per hundred; Poetry, $30.00

 

Order from

NATIONAL REt'RIaA'I‘mN ,«ssomrn‘lox awest 8111 Street, New York, N.Y. 1091i

/
.l

