 

All-Steel PICNIC TABLE FRAMES

C‘

 
  

. . . indispensable guide to
Available with Pre-drilled Lumber Systematic Vacation Programs.”

Kay all-steel picnic tables accommodate six  Family Life

large adults with plenty of room for each per-
son. Order now for immediate delivery.

$233,933 eggs:   GUIDE TO SUMMER CAMPS
masseuse... nge  34 AND SUMMER SCHOOLS

o Welded Construction  s,‘ 
f \ .. ., r7" 5 l  n o I n
: Plenty Leg Room  i Private res1dent camps, tours, unusual opportunl-

ties in the arts and sciences, academic-recreational

Constructed of 11/2” std. L ‘1’

Easy to Assemble '
.K i ’

 

    

pipe legs. Braces. top and . ,
seat cleats' “ma/16:, ‘, . ‘ sess10ns, and programs for the handicapped and
channel.3/8"p|ated bolts- _ - maladjusted are Informativer presented to aid
Vgllgflogggggjgfg - I ‘ a? L; r ,. ' i 1‘ in the selection of an exciting summer experience.
(5) 2x10's x 6 ft. - ' h... _,_ J " - I l, location and enrollm 11
No. l graded or A ‘* ‘“  'J e t
better. Pre-drllled, _ .. . '  director’s winter address
Penta treated. , x I J,
r - - ‘ ~ JIM __fees and length of camping period
ALL-STEEL PEDESTAL PARK FIREPLACES featured activities
_ - . unique programs and facilities
l1———e — 80% of sales to,Parks & Recreation
Areas are f°" Kay 5 Type'A 6”"5 13th ed., 320 pp., cloth $4.40, paper $2.20
0 Big Grills—Enamel Finish
0 Burns Wood or Charcoal 0 d
Type A . . .hS\leV&lS 360°. Improved lock r er from
t t . . . .
|itil’rvi‘el’ven s e t rill adjustable high or P O R T E R S A R G E N T
3/16" steel .............  ..............  $29.90 11 Beacon Street Boston 8, Mass.
1A” steel .................................. .. $33.75
We quote on BIDS—put us on your list Publisher Of
. 7
EM ‘ Write for Brochure THE HANDBOOK OF PRIVATE SCHOOLS
JANESVIHE' ‘OWA & Quantity Discounts

 

SPACE CAPSULE 680WS

New from MEXICO FORGE — Space Capsule —
Here’s a real climber for small astronauts. Sitting
in the seat and looking to the sky gives the kids
a feeling of the "blast off," then they climb up
through the capsule top and down the 12' stain-
less steel chute to a happy landing. Built of the
best material available, this Space Capsule will
last for years. The entire capsule is made of gal-
vanized pipe securely electric welded. Side panel
lettered to your specifications. Space capsule
(Model #680) also available with ladder in place
of stainless chute.

BUCKIN’ BRONCO 400

All children from toddlers through iunior age will
find hours of delight in this imaginative Buckin’
Bronco. Like all Mexico Forge equipment, it is
made of the finest materials to provide years of
dependable, safe service. This Buckin’ Bronco is
uniquely designed with a Spring activator so that
one child may ride alone. Approximate over-all
length, 11'; Height, 4'; teeter pipe, 3V2" 0D.
Pipe supported on two heavy duty sealed ball
bearing pillow blocks, 11/4” shaft and. two heavy
duty springs. Brightly painted red with white
polka dots.

Write for FREE literature on our “complete line
of Engineered Park and Playground Equipment.

THE MEXICO FORGE. INC.

R.D.#1 Reedsville, Pennsylvania

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

Let MacGregor tighten Up your fielding

We’ve laced a bright new world of action between
the thumb and forefinger of our new gloves and

mitts.

Reason one: Players in the majors wanted a
glove that would give them the ultimate in “trigger
control”...let them spear the hot ones and get
them away faster. MacGregor’s eight new web
designs do just that.

Reason two: MacGregor’s new infielder gloves
have squared-up iingers that fit snug against the
ground. This stif‘les hot grounders; reduces the
chance of a ball getting through and gives you the
extra split seconds for the double play.

Reason three: Exclusive “hand-lasting” makes

these gloves ready for action when you take them
from the box. Every one is pre-shaped. Looks and
feels like you’ve played it for two weeks. Try one
on, you‘ll see.

Whether you’re buying for yourself or for your
team, get the gloves and'mitts that stand out in
style and stand up in service. Get MacGregor and
go the way of the winners.

BRUNSWICK SPORTS
ClNClNNATI 32. OHIO

 

MAY 1964

RECREATION

VOL. lVil NO. 5

 

 

PRICE 60c

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

GENERAL

 

Miami Spectacular . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 216
Coming attractions at the 46th National Recreation Congress

Aging Differently in the Space Age (Editorial) . . . Margaret Mead 219

Our thinking about our older citizens is tried but not true

Menuinger Patient Center ( New Facilities for Recreation ) . . . . . . . . 220
New building is planned for structured recreation therapy

Building for Church Recreation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Leon Mitchell 222
Southern Baptist churches have invested over $105,000,000 in facilities

Rehabilitative Recreation in VA Hospitals . . . . . . . C. C. Bream, Jr. 224
Comprehensive program in our nation’s largest hospital system

How Active Are They? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 223
Senior citizens launch new projects and activities

Fun and Fitness, Part I . . . . . . Joseph B. Sharpless, Robert Bergstrom 230

Fresh approaches to physical fitness and sports programs

 

PROGRAM

Creative Magic for the Senior Citizen . . . . .Selma Woodrow Cross 234
Let’s not sell the senior citizen culturally short

The Third Sunday in May . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Warren D. Pfost 236
Honor those who have lead the way on Senior Citizen Sunday

It’s Your Move . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 238

New stratagems in board games

ADMINISTRATION

 

Trial and Triumph in Training . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . A. D. Adie 240
Devel0ping a training course for playground supervisors

Institute on Community Organization . . . . . . . . W. C. Sutherland 242
Program for 9th National Institute for Recreation and Park Executives

Notes for the Administrator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 243
Rescaling fees and charges

State and Local Developments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 244

Expanding network of local facilities in Baltimore County, Maryland

DEPARTMENTS

 

Letters 215 As \Ve Go To Press 217
Rx for the 111 and Handicapped 249
Resource Guide 251
New Publications 254

Reporter’s Notebook 246
Market News 250

People in the Recreation News 253

 

RECREATION is_ published monthly except Juiy and August by the Nationai Recreation Association.
a service organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 8 West Eighth Street. New York 11,
New York, isoon file In public libraries and is indexed in the Readers' Guide. Subscription $5.00 a
year. Canadian and foreign subscription rate $5.75. Re-entered as second-class matter April 25.
1950. at the Post Office in New _York. New York. under Act of March 3. 1879. Acceptance for mailing
at special rate of postage provided for in Section 1103. Act of October 3. 1917. authorized May 1.

1924. Microfiims of current issues available from University Microfiims, 313 N. First Street, Ann
Arbor, Michigan.

   
 

DUCATIONAL The articles herein printed are Copyright. 1964 by the ‘,..

R E s s the expression of the writers and Nationai Recreation Association. :‘@_X;
I

5 5 0 c 1 AT I  not a statement of policy of the Incorpmated ':L\ ,J

A M ER I c A Nationai Recreation Association.

Printed in the U.S.A. 

 

214

Editor in Chief
JOSEPH PRENDERCAST

Editor
DOROTHY DONALDSON

Assistant Editor
, ELVIRA DELANY

Associate Editor for Program
VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

Business Manager
FRANK ROWE

Advertising Manager
ESTA GLUCK

 

On the Cover

“Evening News” is the title of this
unposed shot of grandmother, taken
by Louis Marcuso Of Nutley, New
Jersey, at the age of 18. It won a
$4.00 grand award in one of the
Kodak High School Photo competi-
tions. It proves that beauty is not
denied us in the evening of life.

Next Month

An article expressly written for
RECREATION on what recreation
and parks personnel will be inter-
ested in seeing at the New York
World’s Fair, was prepared by ex-
park man Stuart Constable, now
vice-president in charge of fair
operations. A special sixteen-page
supplement, This I 5 Your NRA, will
also be included in the June issue,
to give subscribers a clear idea of
the services of the National Recre-
ation Association, and what the
Association is doing today to meet
the challenge and needs for recre-
ation service both today and to-

'morrow.

Other up-tO-the-minute articles
bring information on such subjects
as recreation development on small
watershed projects, the excellent
state park recreation program in
Kentucky, a report on the National
Association Of Counties policy for
county parks and recreation, and
further news of the 46th National
Recreation Congress.

Photo Credits
Page 220, (top) The Week Ahead

(Menninger Clinic patient weekly
newspaper) , Topeka, Kansas, (cen-
ter) Morris Sowards, Wolkc’s Com-
mercial Photos, Topeka, Kansas;
224-25, Veterans Administration;
229, (upper left) Lancaster, Penn-
sylvania, Sunday News Photo, (bot-
tom right) Bob Mizuno; 231, (up-
per lelt) De Neicc Mussatti; 233,
Edward Ragland, Winston-Salem,
North Carolina; 234, (top) Paul
Hutchins, The Sunpapers, Balti-
more; 244, Miami-Metro News Bu-
reau; 246, Papalia Photo, West
Orange, New Jersey.

RECREATION

LETTERS

 

Off to New Zealand

Sirs:

I have been awarded a Fulbright
[grant] for an eight-month study of
recreation in New Zealand. We—my
entire family and I—will leave June 1
and return to the United States on F eb-
ruary I, 1965. I will be involved in
study, research, and community organ-
ization for recreation in the “land down
under.”

E. A. SCHOLER, Associate Professor
of Recreation, State University of
Iowa, Iowa City.

0 See Dr. Scholer's article on “Co—
operative Planning in Norway," Rec-
reation, February 1961 .—Ed.

Forty-Two Years of Service
Sirs:

Miss l. Pearl Williams, district super-
visor of the Baltimore City Bureau of
Recreation and a pioneer in the Balti-
more City recreation movement, will
retire on May 29 after forty-two years
of service. Miss Williams was for thirty
years the supervisor of children’s ac-
tivities-for the department. Many of the
finechildren’s programs going on today
were started by Miss Williams. She has
been a teacher in the in-service training
school, the Playground Athletic League
training school, and many workshops.

VIRGINIA S. BAKER, Bureau of Recre-
ation, Baltimore, Maryland.

Proof of Readership

Sirs :

I am most appreciative to your staff
and you for inclusion of items of inter-
est regarding our agency in your maga-
zine. The little note about our camp
material has brought many inquiries.

Enclosed is another and new publi-
cation, called It’s Tough, which may be
of interest to your readers. It deals with
the experiences of adolescent siblings
of the retarded and how they used a
group to clarify their feelings and to
enrich their family life. Single copies
are available through me by enclosing
$.10 in coin with a stamped, self-ad-
dressed envelope. There are quantity
rates for orders over iifty.

It is reassuring to know of your inter-
est in our programs.

MEYER SCHREIEER, Director, Group
Work and Recreation, Association

for the Help of Retarded Children,
New York City.

it 4|- * *-

People certainly read RECREATION!
I have had requests from all over for
the report [on a pilot demonstration in
creative acting techniques]. Thank you
for mentioning it as a resource.

GRACE M. STANISTREET, Director,

Children’s Center for Creative Arts,

Adelphi University, Garden City,

New York.

Ask Yourself

Sirs:

The articles in the January 1964
issue, “Questions to Ask Ourselves” by
Dr. Romney and “Leisure—Its Mean-
ing and Implications” by Mr. Brightbill
and Mr. Theobald were certainly wel-
comed. As a program director in the
YWCA, I feel we need more of such
articles with spiritual depth and mean-
ing. All too often recreation leaders are
too concerned about the skill and not
concerned enough about the individual.
As professionals, we must ask ourselves
if we are serving the personal needs of
people in our area of leadership?

CLAUDIA RUNDMAN, HPER Director,
YWCA, Lima, Ohio.

 

 

Healthful fun for every age group!

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

MAY, 1964

DIMCO SHUFFLEBOARD

Children. young people. adults . . .
Dimco Shuttleboard tor excitement. relaxation and
wholesome exercise! Court diagram can easily be laidE
indoors or outdoors. Famous Dimco equipment. in
low-price "Sunlife" or premium-quality "Free-Glide"
lines. comes in sturdy Regulation Sets or Junior Sets
(2/3 regulation size).

everyone enioys

FREE . . . Court layout plans. game rules. catalog of
Dimco shutfleboard sets. Write today to: -

DIMCO-GRAY, 205 E. Sixth St., Dayton 2, Ohio

  

 

BURKE
BETTER
BUILL

Playground,
Sports and
Recreation
Equipment

Quality construction...
Engineered for Safety,
Performance and Low-
est Maintenance.

Creative products...
Designed for happy
playtime activity and
leisure.

Never
a compromise
with quality when

YOU BUY BURKE

write for 1963 catalog

the I. E. BURKE

company

Fond Du Lac, i
Wisconsin

New Brunswick,
New Jersey

 

OIURKE 1963

215

MIAMI SPECTACULAR

.NE of the most exciting evenings
O in forty-six Congresses lies in

store for delegates at the 1964
National Recreation Congress. On Tues-
day evening, October 6, 1964, all regis-
tered participants will leave the Deau-
ville Hotel either by bus or boat. The
bus ride is forty-five minutes winding
through some of the more scenic areas
of Miami Beach and Miami. The desti-
nation is the beautiful, new Miami
Marine Stadium, one of the finest facili-
ties of its kind, anywhere in the world.
Upon arrival, Congress delegates will
have the best seats in the house reserved
for them. The entertainment will include
a concert by Caesar La Monica and his
orchestra, a dazzling water-ski show,
closing with a dramatic fireworks dis-
play. This entire show will be free to
Congress delegates as guests of the city
of Miami.

After the show delegates may return
by an hour-and-a-half boat ride view-
ing the beautiful skyline of Miami and
Miami Beach from the water. The boat
will pick up delegates right at the
Marine Stadium and return them to
within one block of the Headquarters
hotel. (Note: delegates may go to show

 

Congress Program Committee takes a poolside break dur-
ing a recent meeting in Miami Beach. Kneeling, foreground,
left to right, Stewart Case, Ray Butler, Edward Thacker. In
the rear, left to right, Henry Swan (seated on diving board),
Charles M. Christiansen, Charles E. Hartsoe, Temple R. Jar-
rell, Beverly Sheffield, Jack Woody and Arthur H. Peavy.

216

by boat and return by bus 1'] they wish.)
It is easy to see why the Tuesday
night program is called the “Miami
Spectacular.” This is one among many
special attractions that awaits the dele-
gates to the 46th National Recreation
Congress. Among the others are:
Pic-A-Tour. Congress. delegates will
have the choice of several tours this year,
especially planned to give them an
opportunity to observe the Florida
approach to recreation facilities as well
as other points of interest during the
Congress Week. Instead of one big tour
this year delegates may pick the tour of
their choice which will be available at
different scheduled times during the
week. Each tour will attempt to blend
a visit to a modern recreation facility
with visits to other points of interest, so
that the participant gets the full flavor
of Florida. The tours are scheduled on
approximately a two-hour basis. De-
tailed information on each of the tours
will be given at a later date.
Opening of Exhibits. The Congress
exhibits will be opened ofiicially at 3 :30
PM on Sunday, October 4. The exhibit
area is immediately adjacent to the

area in the Deauville

registration

.3
to ,
...

Table talk.

0 l r

\

N ix
$2.47“,

Hotel. Delegates are encouraged to visit
the exhibits at this time, if they have no
other plans. Exhibits will close at 7:30
PM on Sunday evening. The exhibit
area will close permanently on Wednes-
day rather than stay open Thursday
morning.

Reception. The oliicial All-Congress
Reception will be held on Sunday after-
noon at 4.00PM at the Deauville Hotel.
National Recreation Congress officials
will greet all delegates to the 46th Con-
gress. The reception will be held in the
Napoleon III Room located just off the
Exhibit Hall near the Registration
Desk. An unofficial social get
together” will be held after the Opening
General Session. Informal entertain-
ment and refreshments will be offered
to those attending.

Movie Room. At regularly scheduled
times, movies and slides will be shown
throughout the Congress Week featur-
ing leading films and slides on parks
and recreation. It is hoped that dele-

£¢

gates will review this material not only
for their own education, but for pos-

sible use in their own programs. A
schedule will be put into all of the
delegates’ registration kits. #

 

‘t’_,“- -a

Policy and Local Arrangements Committees
hold a Congress planning session. From left to right: Mar-
garet Swett, John Poulos, Mr. Swan, Milo F. Christiansen,
O. B. Johnson, Mr. Woody, Mr. Butler, Joseph Prendergast,
Mr. Thacker, Mr. Christiansen, Mr. Sheffield, J. H. Sayes, Mr.
Hartsoe, Dennis Hambleton, W. W. Dukes, Marion Huey.

RECREATION

AS WE GO TO PRESS

 

 

 

RACHEL CARSON

RACHEL CARSON, biologist, who wrote
so beautifully about nature and
science subjects, is dead, and the world
has ‘lost a gifted creative person who
popularized nature subjects and did
much to pass along her concern for the
conservation of wildlife. Says The New
York Times, “Miss Carson, thanks to
her remarkable knack of taking dull
scientific facts and translating them into
poetical and lyrical prose that enchanted
the lay public, had a substantial public
image before she rocked the American
public and much of the world with
Silent Spring.” This book certainly
aroused public interest and, in many
instances, debate. Her position in re-
gard to the harmful effects of the in-
discriminate use of chemical sprays was
widely attacked as being distorted; but
she firmly maintained her stand.

In 1936, Miss Carson became aquatic
biologist with the US. Bureau of F ish-
eries in Washington, and continued
with the bureau after it became the Fish
and Wildlife Service. After the publi-

cation of The Sea Around Us in 1951,

when she became world famous, she re-
signed from her government post to
continue her writing. From that time
on, she was recipient of many honors,
among them the Gold Medal of the New
York Zoological Society, the John Bur-
roughs Medal, the Gold Medal of the

Geographical Society of Philadelphia,
and the National Book Award.

 

} TARGET DATE for developing the first
Nationwide Outdoor Recreation Plan is
July 1, 1967. Deve10pment of a com-
prehensive Nationwide Outdoor Recre-
ation Plan is authorized by Public Law
88-29. which serves as the Bureau of
Outdoor Recreation’s organic act.

Dr. Edward C. Cr’afts, BOR director,
says the Nationwide Outdoor Recrea-
tion Plan now being prepared will pro-
vide a statement of:

° Present and potential supply of out-
door recreation resources, classified ac-
cording to a uniform system.

' Present and future demand for out-
door recreation opportunities.

° Present and future needs for outdoor
recreation areas, facilities, and oppor-
tunities.

° Critical outdoor recreation problems.
° Recommendations and programs for
meeting identified outdoor recreation
needs.

The plan will encompass all forms of
outdoor recreation. To cover the wide
range of resources—from small-town
parks to multimillion-acre forest areas
—an inventory of the existing and po-

MAY, 1964

LEISURE NEGOTIATIONS

IN THE 1964 negotiations, we shall give attention to the need to create more
jobs through earlier retirements, longer paid vacations, more paid
holidays, a shorter work week, paid leaves of absence and cuts in excessive
and unnecessary overtime. The result will be more living away from the job
—more time to kill or to use wisely, depending upon the wisdom with which

our members and the Union itself face up

to what is bound to be a drastic

change in our lives and the lives of our children.—From Report of President
Walter P. Reuther (Part One: UAW in Action) to the 19th United Auto-
mobile Workers Constitutional Convention, Atlantic City, New Jersey,

March 20-27, 1964.

tential supply of recreation resources
will be made, taking into account pub-
lic, private, urban, and nonurban lands
and facilities. The demand for all forms
of outdoor recreation will be deter-
mined. Total needs of the nation for
outdoor recreation areas, facilities, and
opportunities will be identified for the
present and projected to 1980, 2000,
and 2020.

At the request of a number of states,
the bureau has under preparation a
Guidebook for State Outdoor Recrea-
tion. Planning to assist states in this
field. To avoid dUplication and provide
for eiiective coordination of state and
federal efforts, the guidebook will be
correlated with BOR’s manual for de-
velopment of the nationwide plan.

) IF YOU ARE GOING to the New York
World’s Fair, do not miss the June issue
of RECREATION which will carry an
article on what recreation and park
people will be interested in seeing. It is
written expressly for our magazine by
Stuart Constable, vice-president in
charge of fair operations and a veteran
park executive. He discusses the recre-
ation areas, parks, and landscaping at
the fair and tells fellow professionals
how they can make their visit a profita-
ble experience. Mr. Constable, a fore-
most landscape architect, was associ-
ated with the New York City Depart-

ment of Parks for twenty-five years.

} A NEWLY CREATED DIVISION of re-
sources management and visitor protec-
tion, in the National Park Service, will
be headed by Harthon L. (Spud) Bill
who has recently been appointed as its
chief. Mr. Bill was formerly superin-
tendent of Glacier National Park, Mon-
tana, and is being replaced there by
Keith P. Neilson from the San Fran-
cisco regional office.

The establishment of the new divi-
sion, as a part of the recent reorgani-
zation of the service, is in line with the
recommendations of the Leopold Wild-
life Management Committee and the

National Academy of Sciences. These
organizations recently stressed in re-
ports to Secretary Udall that if America
is to retain what it has inherited in the
National Park System, the service can
no longer merely “protect”; it must
effectively “manage” these areas, to off-
set the effects inflicted on them by man.

THINGS YOU SHOULD KNOW

) PROPOSALS to change regulations
governing pleasure boating and other
water recreation in the National Park
System made by the US. Department
of Agriculture appear in over seven
pages of the Federal Register, February
14, 1964. The purpose of these amend-
ments is to (1) establish uniform regu-
lations for water-use activities through-
out the Park Service and to assure their
service-wide application; (2) consoli-
date duplicate Park Service boating
regulations; (3) delete obsolete and im-
precise regulations to permit maximum
use of water resources consistent with
overall objectives; (4) conserve and
protect National Park values; (5) par-
allel U. S. Coast Guard regulations per-
taining to navigable waters; and (6)
provide for the health, safety, and wel-
fare of persons and property.

The principal changes are to require
numbering of privately owned vessels
which are propelled by machinery of
more than ten horsepower on the waters
of all parks-monuments, and national
recreation areas, and to incorporate
motorboat safety equipment require-
ments 'and statutory rules of the road
which have been enacted by Congress.
These will bring Park Service regula-
tions in line with regulations of the
Coast Guard which exercises dual con-
trol over navigable waters in the Na-
tional Park System.

Everyone will be interested to know
that also among the new regulations
proposed is one on limiting the age of the
operator of a vessel, other than a hand-
propelled vessel. A person under the
age of fourteen years would be prohib-

217

ited unless such person is accompanied
by another at least eighteen years Of
age who is experienced in the Operation
Of such vessel. Others are on use Of life
preservers and water sanitation and safe
load capacity.

) DR. THEODORE D. TJOSSEM has been
appointed special assistant for mental
retardation and chief psychologist in the
Oilice of the Chief Of the U.S. Children’s
Bureau, Welfare Administration, U.S.
Department Of Health, Education, and
Welfare. Mrs. Katherine B. Oettinger,
bureau chief, announces, “Dr. Tj ossem’s
appointment is another step in carrying
out our intent to bring maximum bu-
reau effort to bear on the implementa-

tion Of the Maternal and Child Health

and Mental Retardation Planning
Amendments Of 1963.”

The amendments call for a broad
approach tO the whole problem Of im-
proving maternity care to reduce the
incidence Of mental retardation, as well
as extending the resources of the ma-
ternal and child health and crippled
children’s programs for which the
Children’s Bureau administers grants to

the states so as to benefit more mentally
retarded children.

) PREPARE for the summer Of 1964!
Growing yearly are the record-breaking
crowds Of visitors to National Parks
and other units Of the National Park
System, according to the most recent
figures. For example, travel tO them in
1963 (exclusive of the National Capital
Parks in the District of Columbia) rose
6.4 percent, with visits totaling 94,092,-
900, compared with 88,457,100 in 1962,
according tO the U.S. Department Of the

Interior. Visits to the National Capital

Parks totalled 8,617,700. The 1962 total
was 8,587,700.

) CHANGE IN NAME AND FUNCTION. The
National Recreation Association’s Na-
tional Advisory Committee on the Pub-
lishing Of Recreation Materials has been
changed, through the committee’s own
recommendation to the Association, to
the National Advisory Committee on
Communications, and is now in the
process Of reorganization. Members Of
the former committee are charter mem-
bers, and will form a subcommittee on

COMING EVENTS

National Arts and Crafts Month, May
15-June 15. Sponsor: Colony Arts Center.
Write tO Bill Newgold, 2224 Rock City
Road, Woodstock, New York.

Letters from America Week, May 18-
24, Sponsor: American Council for Na-
tionalities Service. Write to Read Lewis,
Executive Director, 20 West 40th Street,
New York City.

National Track and Field Coaching
Clinic, June 5-13, Slippery Rock State
College Campus, Slippery Rock, Penn-
sylvania. For further details, write to
Sports International, Inc., 719 Mills Build-
ing, Washington, D.C.

Fifth Annual Conservation Round-Up,
June 10-14, F ontana Village Resort, F on-
tana Dam, North Carolina. For further de-
tails, write Fontana Village Resort, Fon-
tana Dam, North Carolina.

National Flag Week, June 14-20, Spon-
sor: Star Spangled Banner Flag House
Association, Inc., 844 East Pratt Street,
Baltimore, Maryland.

Student International Soccer School,
June 14-20, Howard University Campus,
Washington, D.C. For further details,
write to NAC, 1001 Connecticut Avenue
N.W., Washington 6, D.C.

20th Annual Women’s Collegiate Golf
Tournament, June 21-26, Michigan State
University. For further details, write to
Lucille Dailey, Women’s Intramural Build-

ing, Michigan State University, East Lans-
ing, Michigan.

National Swim For Health Week, June
21-27. Sponsor: Swim for Health Associa-

tion. Write to Martin Stern, Executive
Director, Box 721, Hollywood, Florida.

29th Annual Festival of the Puppe-
teers of America, June 29-July 5, Miami
Beach, Florida. For further details, write
to Milton Halpert, 61 Raydon Drive East,
North Merrick, New York.

218

 

International Folk Dance Festival and
WorkshOp, July 12-18, New York Univer-
sity Camp, Holmes, New York. For further
details, write to Dr. Gladys Andrews, Pro-
fessor of Education, Department of Physi-
cal Education, Health and Recreation,
New York University, New York City.

Joseph Lee Day, July 28. Sponsor: Na-
tional Recreation Association, 8 West 8th
Street, New York 10011.

National Clown Week, August 1-7.
Sponsor: Clown Club of America. Write

to Ray Bickford, National Chairman, Box
22, Bernardston, Massachusetts.

11th International Boys and 4th In-
ternational Girls Tennis Champion-
ships, August 2-8, University of Minne-
sota. For further details, write to Terry
McCann, Director, Youth Sports Develop-
ment, U.S. Junior Chamber of Commerce,

2lst and Jaycee Boulevard, Tulsa 2, Okla-
homa.

2nd Annual Junior Champ Track and
Field Championships, August 7-9, St.
Thomas College, St. Paul, Minnesota. For
further details, write to Terry McCann,
Director, Yoath Sports Development, U.S.
Junior Chamber Of Commerce, 21st and
Jaycee Boulevard, Tulsa 2, Oklahoma.

19th International Jaycee Junior Golf
Championships, August 7-9, Mendakota
and Southview Country Clubs, South St.
Paul, Minnesota. For further details,
write Terry McCann, Director, Youth
Sports Development, U.S. Junior Chamber

of Commerce, 21st and Jayeee Beulevard,
Tulsa 2, Oklahoma.

All-American Soap Box Derby, Au-
gust 15. Sponsor: Chevrolet Motor Divi-
sion. Write to David G. Rummcl, General
Manager, All-American Soap Box Derby,

Inc., General Motors Building, Detroit 2,
Michigan.

publications, working with others under
the broader head. Other subcommittees
are still tO be appointed.

The vital importance Of effective com-
munications, not only in telling the
recreation story, interpreting recreation
to the general public, but in success-
fully doing a cooperative job in the rec-
reation field, brought about the change.
Chairman Of the new committee is
Harold Van Cott, superintendent Of rec-
reation in Essex County, New Jersey.

) SPEAKING 0F COMMUNICATIONS don’t
forget that excellent publication, F orce-
ful Communication through Visual Re-
sources by Janet R. MacLean, Theodore
Deppe, and Harvey Fry Of Indiana Uni-
versity, which was prepared for the
1963 Institute in Recreation Adminis-
tration in Saint Louis. If you missed it,
you’ll want to catch up with it now.
Lavishly illustrated, its ninety-one pages
present many ideas and techniques you
can put to good use in making your
recreation program not only visible but
audible. This is published by the Na-

tional Recreation Association and is

available for $2.50.

) A MAJOR PROPORTION of the 68,117,-
000 persons who are expected to visit
the National Park System from March
through August this year will take ad-
vantage Of its unparalleled Opportuni-
ties for camping, the National Park
Service predicts. Seventy-six areas ad-
ministered by the NPS—extending
from the Virgin Islands National Park
with its smooth sandy beaches to Mount
McKinley National Park in Alaska’s
majestic mountain countrymprovide
use of 26,626 sites or spaces at nO cost
tO the camper except for an entrance
fee at some areas. Twenty-five new
campgrounds have been constructed
since last year. Forecasts for 1964 are
set at 7,109,000 camp-use days, an in-
crease Of more than a million over 1963
total. In the next ten years, the current

projection will have doubled to about
15,486,000 camp-use days.

) VISITS to state recreation areas to-
taled 403,000,000 during 1962, reports
Secretary Of the Interior Stewart Udall.
Six states—New York, Ohio, California,
Michigan, Iowa, and Pennsylvania——
each reported more than 23,000,000
visits to state forests, parks, reservoirs,
and fish and wildlife preserves. States
reporting more than 10,000,000 visitors
to such areas include Arizona, Illinois,
Indiana. Oklahoma, Oregon, Washing-
ton, and Wisconsin. As an indicator Of
the growth Of outdoor recreation, state
park attendance was 97,000,000 in
1941, rose to 166,000,000 in 1954, and
to 285,000,000 in 1962-63. State parks

face an unprecedented user demand.

RECREATION

AGING

GUEST EDITORIAL

 

DIFFERENTLY "IN THE

SPACE AGE

We must plan for a future in which society can make community use

of more active and husky generations of elders

Margaret Mead

HE ATTITUDE in the United States that old age is a
T form of illness, to be lamented but not mentioned
earlier than necessary, has been part of our whole
cult of youth and our unwillingness to tackle head-on many
of the aspects of aging. The picture of aging that pe0ple
of my day grew up with is no longer valid and the aging that
our children will do is totally different from the aging that
we have today. One of the complications, of course, is how
to handle this moving model of aging—and not pickle or
crystalize it in our institutions—whether in Social Security
regulations, residence laws, rules for the construction of
buildings, rules about driving cars, or any of the thousands
of ways in which aging is engaged with the structure of
society.

We have to be very careful that we don’t do anything
with the aging group that we are dealing with now that
might limit the possibilities of people who will be this same
age twenty years from now. They will be totally different"
kinds of people. This has been one of our big drawbacks in
any kind of social research in this country. We catch a
group of adolescents and we make a study about their child-
hood and we find out what their mothers did that they
shouldn’t have done and what they didn’t do that they
should have done. Then, we try to change what’s happening
to today’s babies, so that future adolescents won’t be like
the adolescents we’ve got now. We don’t allow for the fact
that today’s babies are being brought up differently any-
way, and so we’re always trying to catch up with ourselves.
We must not let the special characteristics of the people who
were born in 1890 determine what we’re going to do for
people who were born in 1920. We must be ever mindful
that in building a moving model of aging, we must build
in ways to allow for all these differences.

This material is taken from an address presented at the 1963
New York State Governor’s Conference on Aging. DR.
MEAD, well-known anthropologist and author, is currently
associate curator of ethnology at the American Museum
of Natural History, New York City, and adjunct professor
of anthropology at Columbia University.

MAY, 1964

We’ve got to stop thinking about a category of grand-
mothers who all look like what our grandmothers looked
like—if we can remember them. Of course, they looked
terribly old to us—incredibly old—as older people always
look to children. Then, we’ve had this continuous process
of rejuvenation going on in my lifetime. All the women in
my age group, and slightly above it, have benefited by the
fact that they look younger every year. We need to remem-
ber that we don’t look younger to the children, but we do
look younger to each other and that cheers us up immensely.
We need to think in terms of generational, as well as chrono-
logical age—delinitely and precisely. We must not lump
together and confuse sixty-five to seventy-five years of age,
for instance, with being grandparents or great-grandparents.

By stylizing older people as grandparents, we muddle it
all up and we don’t use the grandparents as we should.
We’re not recognizing that grandparents are, on the whole,
the most vigorous, freest group in the population. Many of
the men have gone as far as they are going to get, so they
can quit competing. If they are women, they are filled with
mild post-menopausal zest. We should be using them in
the community. They should never get categorized in any
way as out of the picture. We should have grandparents’
and teachers’ associations, or a grandparents’ and school
association. Today, we retire people the day their last child
leaves public school. They may only be forty, but we put
them on the shelf. They turn into disgruntled taxpayers who
disapprove of the schools and object to the bond issue.
Every community in the country is filled with these people
and it’s utterly unnecessary.

WHEN WE USE the words “the golden years of life,”
roughly speaking, we are thinking of the great-grand-
parents, and great-great-grandparents. Up to that point, we
call them “silver.” This “golden”business, of course, I don’t
think we are going to give up quite yet, though I imagine
there are going to be a fairly large number of people who
are going to rebel against being “golden” and it might be

Continued on Page 245

219

  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  

The new building is ap-
proached by a walk going
through a formal garden.
The exterior is of gold and
blue steel panels with a
decorative section of native
stone. The buildings de-
signed by the Menninger
Foundation are planned for

beauty as well as for their
utility.

Above, the new activity-
therapy building enables the
foundation to consolidate
many of its patient activities
under one roof. For many
years, creative and educa-
tional activities were scat-
tered in a number of old
catch-as-catch-can buildings.

Right, the large activities
room is loosely divided into
areas for painting, ceramics,
leatherwork, weaving, sculp-
ture, sewing, plus lounging
chairs for knitters. The open-
beamed ceiling has tubed
bulbs which furnish even
lighting across the entire
well-planned working area.

 

2'20 RECREATION

Modern Facilities
for Recreation

MENNINGER PATIENT CENTER

Planned for structured therapy, new building
reflects Menninger love of space and nature

AKESHIFT AND iMAKE-DO became
M passé in 1962 when the adjunc-

tive therapy staff members and
patients of the Menninger Foundation
in Topeka, Kansas, emerged from old
buildings like the paint-splattered arts-
and-crafts shop and began work in a
new and spacious, sixteen thousand-foot
building known as the Charles W.
Rosenberry Activities Therapy Build-
ing. The building enables the founda-
tion to consolidate many of its patient
activities under one roof. For many
years, creative and educational activi-
ties were scattered in a number of old
buildings that once were barns and
private homes.

The new two-level building was de-
signed for maximum flexibility, mini-
mal cost, and beauty of architecture. It
is approached by a walk going through
a formal garden. The exterior is of gold
and blue steel panels with a decorative
section of native stones. The main floor
is divided into three general sections.
The north, or left, section houses crea-
tive activities, including painting, ce-
ramics, sculpture, and other crafts. The
center section houses the oHices of the
adjunctive therapy department, inter-
view rooms, a darkroom, kiln room,
multi-purpose room, and storage areas.
The south, or right, section has a lounge
for day-hospital patients, two class-
rooms, a patient library, and a lecture
room. The basement area has another
multi-purpose room, a kitchen, storage
rooms, and equipment rooms.

The activities-therapy program is the
core of the inpatient and day-hospital
treatment program for adults. Each
patient follows an individual schedule
of creative, recreation, social, and work
activities prescribed by his physician to
meet his psychological needs—t0 edu-

MAY, 1964

cate and re-educate him in gratifying
and acceptable modes of daily living.

A PANORAMA VIEW of activities-ther-
apy treatment at work can best be
seen in the creative-arts room on the
main floor of the Rosenberry building.
This room has the largest amount of
floor space in the building and occupies
over a third of the main floor. The room
can comfortably accommodate eighty
patients engaged simultaneously in dif-
ferent activities. It utilizes an open-
space plan with movable cabinets that
allows an immediate flexibility that
fixed equipment would not provide. No
pillars of any sort obstruct the view
across the spacious room.

The large activities room is loosely
divided into areas for painting, ceram-
ics, leatherworking, weaving, sculpture
work, sewing, plus lounging chairs for
knitters. Eye strain is alleviated by an
open-beamed ceiling which spans sixty
feet and has tubed bulbs that furnish a
maximum of lighting across the entire
working area. ‘

The day-hospital lounge on the main
floor serves nearly seventy-five patients
at the Menninger Clinic who are well
enough to live out of the hospital in
private homes or apartments, but who
come to the clinic for eight to ten hours
each day to participate in a treatment
program similar to that for inpatients.
This room provides a relaxing atmos-
phere where the patients can watch TV,
listen to stereo, meet their physicians,

play cards, or simply rest.

It is of very real value for every-
one to have methods of “refueling”

through hobbies or recreation.—
DR. WILLIAM C. MENNINGER.

 

THE PATIENT LIBRARY on the main
floor has about thirty-five hundred
books which represent varied tastes and
interests. Twenty periodicals are sub-
scribed to, ranging from Sports Illus-
trated to Saturday Review. Two class-
rooms are adjacent to the library and
are used for a variety of educational
programs for patients as well as for
classes in the small high school that is
operated for patients.

The lecture room on the main floor
serves as a multi-purpose room with
space for patient educational and cul-
tural activities and for staff conferences.
It will seat up to eighty persons and is
equipped for lectures and films. The
second multi-purpose room is found in
the basement of the Rosenberry Build-
ing. It is used for meetings, parties,
and for additional patient activities as
the need arises. One other important
use of the room is that it serves the
foundation as a bomb shelter.

The kitchen in the basement is used
for patient cooking classes and for
patient social functions. The kitchen is
built on the island arrangement, with
cooking burners in three different areas
plus three built-in ovens. A huge double-
doored refrigerator and tiled counters
add to the utility and beauty of the
room.

The Charles W. Rosenberry Activi-

ties Therapy Building was planned as
other buildings, whether new or re-
modeled, and designed by the Men-
ninger Foundation—for utility and for
beauty. The Menninger brothers, Doc-
tor Will and Doctor Karl, carry on their

father’s love for nature and space. New
buildings on foundation property re-
flect these “spatial” qualities, both with-
in and without. #

221

BUILDING for
CHURCH RECREATION

How many churches are doing effective work in the recreation field?

leon Mitchell
TODAY, over 120 Southern Baptist

churches operate well-equipped

gymnasiums and recreation cen-
ters, and many more such facilities are
in the planning stage or nearing com-
pletion. Over $105,000,000 has already
been invested in church facilities used
primarily for recreation. It is estimated
that this capital investment will go to
$146,000,000 in the next three years.
This work was established by Mrs.
Agnes Durant Pylant, who served as
secretary of the Baptist Church Recre-
ation Service from its start in February
1954 until she retired in July 1962. She
was succeeded by Bob M. Boyd who had
served in the Church Recreation De-
partment as recreation leadership train-
ing consultant since August 1958.

Starting with the secretary of the
service and one stenographer in Feb-
ruary 1954, the service now has a staff
of six professional and four secretarial
workers. When the Church Recreation
Service was established, two Southern
Baptist churches had already built beau-
tiful recreation facilities and acquired
full-time directors. The First Baptist
Church of Dallas was first, followed
closely by the First Baptist Church of
Oklahoma City.

Many of the larger Baptist churches
are doing big and effective things in
the area of recreation, and much is be-
ing done in the smaller churches too.
Someone has said: “All Baptist churches
have recreation! Every time a church
has a dinner on the grounds, a fish fry
for the Men’s Brotherhood, a Sunday
School class party, it engages in recre-
ation.” Several churches have developed
really effective youth and recreation
programs without an activities building
or gym. Working through the existing

 

MR. MITCHELL is sports and facilities
consultant for the Church Recreation

Department, Baptist Sunday School
Board, Nashville, Tennessee.

00‘)

church organizations, such as the Sun-
day School, the Training Union, the
Music Ministry, and other groups is the
key to successful programing.
Recreation buildings are designed

for all ages—the preschoolers, elemen—
tary, teenagers, college and career,

single adults, middle adults, and senior
adults. Recreation programs in the
church build fellowship, interest young
people in wholesome activities, help
minister to the whole life. “Whether
therefore ye eat, or drink, or whatsoever
ye do, do all to the glory of God” (I
Cor. 10:31). This is a principle worthy
of church recreation. The desired result
of effective church recreation is a ma-
ture, useful, serving member of the
congregation.

NE CHURCH in North Carolina, the
First Baptist Church in Winston-
Salem, completed a $250,000 recreation
center in July 1961. The new structure
has a large basketball Hoor with lane
markings for volleyball, badminton,
basketball, and handball. This floor is
also used as a skating rink. Special shoe
skates are furnished by the church.
Permanent benches along the side and
floor-to-ceiling shatterproof glass par-
titions on the mezzanine level provide
plenty of spectator space. At one end of
the gym on the upper level, there is a
large youth lounge protected by glass,
furnished for relaxation, with TV pro-
vided for quiet recreation. There are
also shower and dressing room facilities
on the gym floor.

Running parallel to the gym is a very
large gameroom area with accommo-
dations for three or more Ping-pong
tables, a table shuffleboard, and a dozen
more table equipment games. Also it
provides several lounge chairs and ta-
bles which serve as snack tables. The
latter are located directly in front of
the well equipped “U-shaped” snack
rack with nineteen stools. The snack

rack features pre-wrapped sandwiches
prepared in infrared ovens, Coca Cola
icemaker and dispensing machine, ice-
cream, shakes, soups, and other snack
items. \

The director’s ofiice is in the center
of the recreation area immediately ad-
joining the equipment-issue room, and
next to the showers and dressing rooms,
also within twenty feet of the snack
rack. The oflice is surrounded on two
walls by glass paneling affording an ex-
cellent view of the entire gymnasium
floor, snack area, and youth lounge.
Drapes are provided for privacy when
the director needs to study, counsel, or
plan activities.

Upstairs there is a large craftroom,
complete witli shelves, storage, sink
facilities, and provisions for Explorer
Scouts, girls’ auxiliaries, and class meet-
ings. Close by is a wood-paneled room
designed for Royal Ambassadors,
Scouts, and other gatherings on a regu-
lar basis. The wood paneling facilitates
the hanging of ranking charts, pictures,
honors receive, et cetera.

Tar. PROGRAM is broad and varied
and designed to appeal to all age
groups and fields of interest. Efforts are
made to tie every recreation activity
possible to a sponsoring organization,
such as Sunday School, Training Union,
MusicDepartment, WMU, Or Deacons
organization. Annual events, such as
All-Church Old-Fashioned Picnic, All-
Church Pie Fellowship, ice-cream so-
cials, et cetera are channeled through
the existing organizations with the
church-elected hospitality committee
bearing its share of the load.

Religious drama is important at First
Baptist Church, and could become a
strong area of the recreation program.
A perfect theatre-in-the—round is pro-
vided in the lower circular auditorium
immediately underneath the church
sanctuary. Work with plays, recreation

Rrrnrn‘rnm

skits, devotional dramas in departments,

creative dramatics, and speech choir all'
have their place.

Athletics claim some of the program’s
efforts. Each year, the church sponsors
teams in softball, baseball, basketball,
and volleyball. These include both men
and women teams. In addition to organ-
ized leagues, the church maintains an
intramural program within the mem-
bership with classes playing each other.

Being a downtown church, the “busi-
nessmen” of the church membership
may take time out on a regular basis
for the fellowship of noonday volley-

 

‘- ‘-a:‘/

ball: a hOt Shower: 3 sandWiCh With milk Well-equipped, U-shaped snack rack in the First Baptist Church in ‘Winston-
shake at the snaCk I‘aCk- They can go Salem, North Carolina, heats prewrapped sandwiches in infrared ovens.

back to work feeling relaxed and happy
with the world.

EVERY EVENING finds the recreation
building in operation with as many?»
as four groups meeting at one time.
There may be a basketball, volleyball,
or skating session in the gymnasium, a
hobby and craft session upstairs, a so-
cial in the gameroom, and perhaps a
formal banquet with decorations and
all in the fellowship or dining hall of
the church. _ I

There is a year-round eight-team _ - ~ ,7  '  h  ,  
bowling league which operates at one 
of the beautiful thirty-two-lane com-
mercial establishments nearby. There
are other opportunities for beginners to
bowl, and for family bowling occasion-
ally.

On Wednesday afternoons an inte- . _
grated program finds recreation, choirs, The large gameroom area accommodates Ping-pong tables, a number of

boys: and girls, teen organizations on table games including table shuffleboard, snack and conversation areas.

a correlated schedule. Opportunity is
given for family recreation, with all
areas open for play, immediately fol-
lowing the Prayer Hour until around
10:00PM. The snack rack is open.

Special-interest groups, hobby and
crafts, and ladies activities meet regu-
larly in the building. A senior-adult
program for those retired or older is
planned with seeing, going, and doing
making up the bulk of the program.
Every week, there is at least one, and
often more, covered-dish affair. Every
Friday evening is family night in the
fall, with family skating the most popu-
lar activity.

In addition to supervised facility
program, First Baptist offers many op-
portunities for assemblies at Ridgecrest,

 

‘. . w. nus.   - _ ‘ry
._\....\;"M...  \ x... .,.. u... m ,1 mucus) .. \x .4, . as. “$2 _ _  ,  ___,,...., v’Ny“)

_ Downtown businessmen'find church gym convenient for noonhour workout.
continued on Page 248 The church sponsors teams in softball, baseball, basketball and volleyball.

MAY, 1964 223

REHABILITATIVE
RECREATION

IN
VA HOSPITALS

Recreation is of utmost importance
in the largest network of
hospitals in the United States

C. C. Bream, Jr.

AID A LONG-TERM PATIENT in one of
the Veterans Administration’s
Eastern hospitals, “There’s an indescrib-
able joy and boundless reward in a piece
of writing. It is even more meaningful
when one is otherwise helpless.” This
comment referred specifically to the
writing activity of the VA’s Physical
Medicine and Rehabilitation Service Recreation Program
conducted in cooperation with the HOSpitalized Veterans’
Writing Project—one of the many volunteer groups that
provide invaluable assistance to the VA’s professional rec-
reation staff.

The VA’s Department of Medicine and Surgery operates
the largest network of hospitals and domiciliaries in the
United States. At least one or more of its 169 modern, well-
equipped field stations are to be found in each state within
our continental limits. On an average day, VA’s patient
load is above 114,000. During a year’s time, VA admits
more than half a million veterans to its hOSpitals.

As an integral phase of the Physical Medicine and Re-
habilitation Service of the VA’s Department of Medicine

 

MR. lint-AM lo vim-j of the Recreation, Physical Medicine
and Rehabilitation Service, Veterans Administration De-
partment of llfmiirine and Surgery, Washington, D.C.

224

 

9%;

 

Patients at the McCloskey VA Center in Temple, Texas, enioy
dominoes during a Grab Bag Party in the recreation hall.

Quiet hobbies help keep TB patient from getting restless.

and Surgery, various activities are provided. Similar com-
ments made by patients and members have become com-
monplace also with respect to these activities. In all aspects
of the VA’s rehabilitation recreation program, first con-
sideration is given to the needs of patients as determined
by appropriate medical authority. Medical considerations
are of prime importance in planning, scheduling, and select-
ing activities. These considerations are the bases for dis-
cussions with medical personnel and include such points as:

o What the overall program has to offer and its potential
results.

0 Programing plans to ensure activities that are consistent
with patient needs, interests, and capabilities.

0 Preparation of progress reports for selected patients.

0 Necessary modification and adaptation of activities to
meet medical limitations of patients.

Following these determinations, which are used as pro-
gram resources, patients’ interests and capabilities are
ascertained in order that appropriate recreation activities
may be selected. Active as well as passive recreation activi-
ties are provided. These are conducted in the hospital’s
auditorium, recreation rooms, outdoor areas, dayrooms,
and wards.

The VA program differs from recreation programs for
well people in that interests of patients dictate selection of

RECREATION

 
 

 

activities only after their needs and abilities have been de-
termined. As an integral phase of the total medical pro-
gram, the VA’s recreation program seeks constantly to pro-
vide a comprehensive, well-balanced, and efficiently ex-
ecuted range of activity. As a general principle, emphasis
will vary most according to the nature of disabilities and
illnesses. For example, recreation activities for psychiatric
patients are designed to encourage maximum patient
participation and to aid in resocialization and reeducation.
Recreation activities for pulmonary-disease patients are
directed toward programs requiring passive or mildly active
participation. Therefore, programs tending to excite, dis-
turb, or cause undue exertion are excluded. Although rec-
reation opportunities are available to general medical and
surgical patients, the emphasis is directed toward the
long-term patient. Recreation activities for domiciliary
members are as extensive, both in active and passive partici-
pation phases, as are consistent with the VA’s policy on care
and rehabilitation of these members, with specific adapta-
tion to older age groups.

The overall objectives of the program are to:

o Facilitate the patient’s adjustment to hospital life and to
make him more receptive to treatment.

0 Facilitate the patient’s early physical, mental, and social
rehabilitation, recovery, and discharge.

MAY, 1964

0 Assist in minimizing the risk of unnecessary readmission.

0 Aid in the patient’s transition to his community, following
discharge.

The degree to which these objectives are reached is de-
pendent upon the extent to which the patient is provided
with recreation knowledge, skills, and services that:

0 Improve his morale and sustain it at a high level.

0 Lead to‘his understanding of their significance to the
individual and group society.

0 Promote his desire to remove the physical or mental
barriers and return to a normal life.

0 Encourage the formation of habits and attitudes which
will permit his confident, well-adjusted participation in
normal activities.

0 Encourage him to remain in the hospital until his treat-
ment is completed.

0 Counteract the influence tending to “institutionalize” him.
0 Compensate for his disabilities and limitations while in-
spiring him to fulfill his potentialities.

0 Channel his aggressive drives into appropriate outlets.
o Stimulate new or dormant interests and talents, as well as
to-reestablish old ones.

Major recreation activities utilized in accomplishing
these objectives include adapted sports, arts, crafts, hob-
bies, motion pictures, music, radio-TV, dramatics, and

225

social activities. In their conduct, all supervised individual
or group participation and instruction is medically cleared
or specifically prescribed, as any other treatment procedure.
Physicians are assisted greatly in planning treatment for
specific patients or groups of patients by observing and
evaluating the patients’ physical and social tolerance as they
participate in the various aspects of the recreation program
and by receiving reports from the recreation staff of signifi-
cant observations of patients which they have noted.

RECREATION for the Veterans Administration’s hospital-
ized veterans and domiciliary members was provided
shortly after World War I. For the most part, the recrea-
tion program at that time consisted of motion pictures and
activities of a recreation nature made possible in a great
measure by volunteers. Today’s program is greatly ex-
panded and refined. It started in November 1945, primarily
as a result of the rehabilitation values of recreation that
were witnessed during WWII.

Initially, recreation was a part of the VA’s special service
program that also included the canteen, library, voluntary,
and chaplaincy services. In October 1955, recreation, along
with library and voluntary services, was placed organ-
izationally in the VA’s Department of Medicine and
Surgery under the administration of a director of special
service. In March 1960, “special service,” as an organiza-
tional title and entity, was discontinued, and recreation was
placed in the physical medicine and rehabilitation service
on an equal status with physical therapy, occupational
therapy, educational therapy, corrective therapy, blind re-
habilitation, and manual-arts therapy. This change placed
recreation under direct medical supervision and adminis-
tration for the purpose of adding greater strength to recrea-
tion, improving patient care, and in the interest of good
management.

Many innovations have been made in the administration
and operation of the VA’s hOSpital recreation program.
These have included the assignment of recreation personnel
at some hOSpitaIs to a specific group or unit of patients with
whom they remain indefinitely; the adaptation of equip-
ment and facilities enabling Stryker patients to bowl; uni-
lateral amputees to play golf, play billiards, and partici-
pate in fly-casting tournaments; and the paraplegic to play

basketball.

FL’NCTIONING under medical direction and professional
recreation leadership, the recreation program at each
VA hospital is administered by the chief of staff, who pro-
vides over-all direction and establishes the environment for
its conduct; the chief of the Physical Medicine and Re-
habilitation Service, who provides direct medical guidance
and general supervision; the coordinator of the Physical
Medicine and Rehabilitation Service, who assists in the
coordination and administration of the overall PMSst
program; and the recreation staff, under the immediate
direction of the chief of recreation.

There are approximately 850 full-time professional
hospital recreation specialists engaged in the conduct of
the recreation program in Veterans Administration hospi-

226

tals. These are career employes who enjoy all the benefits of
federal employment. Salary ranges run from $4,690 to
$12,620 a year. Recreation staffs vary in size and composi-
tion according to the patient load at each hospital. The
present variation is from a minimum of one to a maximum
of thirty-three.

The single recreation employe (normally at a small gen-
eral hospital) is recognized as the chief of recreation.
Large hospitals will normally have, in addition to the chief
of recreation, one or more specialists in each major activity
area. These are designated as recreation specialists (social
activities, music, adapted sports, or the like). While recrea-
tion specialists tend to begin in one of these specialized
areas, they are more typically utilized as generalists. As
such they serve in more than one activity area for which
their prior VA education or training has equipped them.

To be eligible for appointment to these career positions
in the Veterans Administration, applicants must meet civil-
service requirements. One of the basic requirements is the
possession of a bachelor’s degree with a major in recreation
or with twenty-four semester hours in one or a combination
of the following or allied subjects: arts and crafts, dramat-
ics, music, radio and/ or television, social activities, and
sports.

The Veterans Administration’s regard for employe train-
ing and development, applicable to all its employes, is re-
flected in the following policy statement: “The strength of
the VA today—and in the years to come—depends on the
extent to which we are able to locate, develop, and select
able, dedicated people. The VA therefore will carry out an
integrated, vigorous, positive, and practical program of
career development, geared to the agency’s requirements
and resources, and to the needs and capacities of the people
who staff the organization.” This policy is intended to pro-
vide training for improved performance, deveIOpment for
assumption of greater responsibilities, competitive Oppor-
tunity for promotion, career planning, and management de-
velopment.

The Department of Medicine and Surgery encourages its
personnel to be actively engaged, to the extent practicable
for each individual, in education and training which will
increase knowledge, proficiency, ability, skill, and qualifi-
cations in the performance of ofhcial duties. The funda-
mental responsibility for self-education, self-improvement,
and self-training resides in each employe as a matter of
personal pride in improved performance of his assigned
duties. Under certain conditions, the department stands
ready to assist such worthy self-endeavor. VA recreation
personnel are encouraged to contribute to the recreation
profession through preparation of articles for professional
journals, membership in professional societies, and attend-
ance at conferences. #

' Those interested in obtaining more complete information
on salaries, other employe benefits, qualification require-
ments, and the like, should visit their nearest VA hospital
personnel officer or write the Department of Medicine and

Surgery (13502), VA Central Office, Washington, D.C.
20420.

RECREATION

More FUN, More ACTION, More GAMES

Better equipment means better instruction, better practice, better games.
Here’s quality equipment that adds extra action, extra fun for everyone. Rugged
all-weather units are built for heavy-duty use and abuse—guaranteed to give
trouble-free service for years.

     
     
   
 
    

.-
I
if
p.‘
-

 
     
   
           
 
      
   
   
   
 
    

READY-NET

sets up in 60 seconds.

 ‘25
3'31le

is

    

13%. i Rugged two-post net frame
1%.! g is instantly adjustable
egg-IE [ for regulation volleyball,

 

tennis or badminton.
Lightweight, portable,
free-standing—

does not require

floor fastenings,
tie-backs or cables.

BALL-BUY

automatically delivers

720 balls an hour—
enough fun

30' frame $118; d to
Special 3-game fan prac Ice
nylon net $39. or everyone.

Pinpoint accuracy:
delivers lobs,
drives or

drop shots—

at any speed

to any spot

on the court.
Controlled by
foot switch.

ll Rugged steel

ADVHHDDV JOE/HO Ol ADVHHDDV 38”

construction.
$395.

 
  

RE-BUUND-NET

puts tennis fun
everywhere
—indoors or out—
on any level area

as small as 12' x 15’.
'must’ for rainy days.
Nylon net duplicates
actual game play:
soaks up time,
allows get-ready pause.
For beginners or
advanced players.

10' net $125; 20’ net $195. '

 

r--------------------"

I   co"mc' . 27'7" mm"“" DR"BR°"XV"—|—E.N.Y. o com-2 914-05 7-0047

All Ball-Boy products are fully guaranteed.They are available only BALL-.BOY Check or Money I
by direct purchase from the company. machine I:

I Order Enclosed
| RE-BOUND-NET . l
I ea L NAME WTITLE —————” 10' or 20' size S Please bill us
SCHOOL 0R COMPANY________._______—___ READYNET I
30: or 40: size E] SGHd C.0.D.
I STREETM I
Special Nylon Net Send only
L CITY___._________________ STATE_______ [3 for READY-NET [:I information

MAY, 1964 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 227

H0“!
ACTIVE

ARE
THEY?

Senior citizens
“retire” to new worlds
of adventure

228

How active is “active retirement”?
Even a hasty look at the doings, goings
and comings of our senior citizens re-
veals that it is very active, indeed, if
not downright radioactive! This is
proven by some of the senior citizens
recreation projects that follow:

Out of This World

SENIOR-CITIZEN ACTIVITIES offered by
the recreation department in Long
Beach, California, are “out of this
world.” More than a dozen senior-
citizen clubs include bowling on the
green, chess, checkers, an excursion
group called the Golden Tours, fly-cast-
ing, a forum called University by the
Sea, horseshoes, roque, shuffleboard,
and a social activity called the Golden
Club.

Seniors also participate in the de-
partment’s other offerings, such as
classes in square, round, and folk danc-
ing, camera, crafts, Japanese doll mak-
ing, bridge lessons, and many others.
Community programs followed by old-
time dancing are largely patronized by
the senior citizen.

The following article, reprinted with
permission from the Long Beach Inde-
pendent-Press-Telegram magazine
Southland, was written by Virginia
Clark of the Long Beach Recreation
Department:

You don’t have to be a hundred years
old or a millionaire to join the Recre-
ation Department’s Golden Tours Ex-
cursion Club—but if you are, you can!
Anyone fifty or over, with one dollar
for the yearly dues, is eligible to become
a member and go on the tours, some of
which last several weeks to points as
far away as Hawaii. One-day trips are
more frequently made to places near
home, such as Disneyland. Travel is no
longer a luxury, thanks to Golden Tours,
for most of the one-day or night ex-
cursions cost only $2.25, a fact especial;
ly welcome to those members living on
a fixed income.

The growth in membership has been
spectacular, according to manager Jack
Dillon, for since the club was started by
the Long Beach Recreation Department
in 1957 with 150 charter members, it
has zoomed to its present total of two
thoumnd.

Exi-ursions are planned and con-
ducted In a competent group of elected

officers who receive their tour fare free
in return for their services. Members
pay only the cost of transportation and
admissions on a tour, which may ac-
count for the club’s phenomenal growth.

In six years, the Golden Tours ex-
cursions have covered 240,000 miles
according to Mrs. G. D. Van Dugteren,
the club’s No. 1 volunteer. “This dis-
tance is farther than a trip to the moon,
and our Western scenery is surely more
attractive than the lunar landscape,”
she says. “In this day of ‘moon shots’
you might say our motto is ‘See Earth
First!’. We’ve scheduled trips to such
places as the Islands, Las Vegas, San
Francisco, Yellowstone Park, Seattle,
Hearst’s Castle, Hollywood, Catalina,
Laguna, San Diego, Marineland, Knott’s
Berry Farm, county parks and muse-
ums, Long Beach Harbor, and local
factories.”

The club has some minor problems,
because no organization is all on the
plus side. One of the everyday problems
is that a few of the women are consist-
ently late, some even missing a tour
completely. Since there are no refunds,
they’re out both fun and money; yet
some of them still come late. There was
one man who slept past the departure
time for a four-day tour of Yosemite.
He took another bus at added expense
and joined the group there.

“Another slight problem is the in-
dividuals whom we have to find while
on tour,” Mr. Dillon says. “I’ll never
forget my first trip with the group. We’d
stopped for lunch and shopping in
Santa Monica, and when it was time to
leave, we were short one passenger. I
went off to find her, and on returning
we saw our bus driving off. I can’t
imagine what the people in Santa
Monica thought on seeing a 250-pound
man and an elderly woman jumping
around and yelling in the middle of
the street! It was a great relief to see
the brake lights of the bus flash on.”

Mr. Dillon also points out that par-
ents, teachers, youth and church work-
ers, as well as recreation leaders, could
start right now among children and
young adults to develop attitudes toward
retirement, preparing the next gener-
ation of senior citizens for their leisure.
“In the meantime,” Mr. Dillon con-
cludes, “Our aim is to keep members so
busy and happy with what they’re doing

RECREATION

 

The sweet spell of success. Winners
of state spelldown sponsored by
Lancaster, Pennsylvania, Recreation
Commission. Twenty-two participated.

today, that they don’t want just to dwell
on yesterday! And as for tomorrow—
who knows? Maybe we will plan a
Golden Tour to the moon, with our
senior citizens in orbit.”

Battle of Orthography

HE Lancaster, Pennsylvania, Recre-
ation Commission launched a pro-
gram for its senior citizens by sponsor-
ing a statewide spelling bee. All senior-
citizen clubs in Pennsylvania were
invited to hold local spelling bees,
choose a winner, and send two people
to the Pennsylvania Dutch country for
a spirited battle of orthography. Twenty-
two contestants participated in the con-
test held last March. Steward Straw was
adjudged state champion.

No Longer Mr. X

DURING A WORKSHOP on “The Well-
Aging,” held as part of the second
annual New York Governor’s Confer-
ence on Aging last May, Virginia
O’Neill, director of the Bureau of Spe-
cial Services of the New York City De-
partment of Welfare, discussed the
importance of continuing education
for our older citizens. Declares Mrs.
O’Neill:

Educational activities are a very im-
portant part of New York City’s pro-
gram for senior citizens. Studies have
shown that the person who is seventy
years old today has had on the average
only a sixth-grade education. Many of

MAY, 1964

these older people, now that they have
the time, are anxious to educate them-
selves and broaden their horizons.
Through teachers supplied by the board
of education, many members are moved
from illiteracy to literacy and to higher
levels of reading, writing, and cultural
subjects. Mr. M. at the age of seventy-
six was extremely embarrassed because
he had to sign his Social Security check

with an “X” and did not believe at his
age he could learn to write his name.

There has been a marked increase in
the past few years in educational pro-
grams developed around current issues
projected through day-center forums,
panels, and small study groups. Through
these programs, the older peOple, in
addition to other values, become a more
informed citizenry. They learn to evalu-
ate and discuss all sides of current prob-
lems. This new knowledge has created
many opportunities for responsible so-
cial action, planned and carried out by
the members themselves.

Tenth Birthday

THE Sunset Club, an organization for
senior citizens in Steubenville,
Ohio, is celebrating its tenth birthday.
Club director is Mrs. Max Gorsuch,
who has been with it since its inception.
The following report of club activities
was written by her:

“Recreation For All,” a slogan of the
Steubenville Recreation Department,
means just that. Recreation not only for
Dad, Mom, and the kids, but for Grand-
pa and Grandma. Yes, even for Great-
Grandpa and Great-Grandma.

Afternoons are spent in various craft
projects, piano playing, and singing, or
in sewing for the Red Cross or cancer
center. Some unable to take part in the
more active pursuits come to the cover-
dish luncheons to share the fellowship
and conversation.

Our program thus far has followed
the general lines developed in past years
with the addition of several new fea-
tures. We held two rummage sales last
year at the assembly room. Proceeds
from these sales help to finance the July
picnic and the Christmas dinner in De-
cember. In October, club members
planted bulbs on the grounds of the
housing development and are eagerly
awaiting the spring flowering season.

A Project Was Born

HEN Eddie Higashino, who directs

the senior citizen program for
Honolulu’s Recreation Division, was on
the lookout for a service project for his
club members, the Honolulu Theatre for
Youth was looking for somebody to
stamp, address, and sort for mailing the
the twenty-five hundred postcards it
sends out every two months to announce
its plays for children. The seniors’ time
matched the juniors’ need, and a project
was born. Members of the St. Mary’s
Golden Age Club devoted a whole series
of October meetings to the first address-
ing project. Then a group accepted the
theater’s invitation to see the play, The
Mystery of the Alhambra, an adaptation
of the Washington Irving stories done

W

    

   

~v+*”"w'jz‘””""'“vv. «""L'fm was... I, “use”,

Waikiki Beach is just a few yards the
other side of the door but these Hono-
lulu senior citizens devote themselves
to the task of addressing the thou-
sands of postcards announcing the
opening play of the Honolulu Theatre
for Youth. This is a bimonthly project.

for fourth-graders in Honolulu. The
club then decided to make the address-
ing project a permanent one and will
handle the postcard chore all year.

Recreation division-sponsored senior
citizens groups are involved in many
social activities: hula and ballroom
dancing, ukulele lessons, song sessions,
card games, regular “birthday dinners,”
and once-a-month field trips. However,
the project for the Honolulu Theatre
for Youth is the first community project
undertaken by any of the groups. Mr.
Higashino is hoping the work will sug-
gest further projects.

229

PROGRAM

FUN AND FITNESS

Recreation departments are trying many fresh approaches

in their physical fitness and sports programs.

 

TRACK AND FIELD
DEVELOPMENT

 

Joseph B. Shorpless, Director, Recre:
otion and Parks, Livingston, New-
Jersey. ‘-

H E N a t i 0 n al

Recreation
Association was
elected as a voting
allied member of
the Amateur Ath-
letic Union of the
United States in
December, 1962. In January of 1963,
the NRA appointed a national advisory
committee to develop the finest possible
relationships between these two national
bodies and to bring together those serv-
ice associates of the NRA who are con-
cerned with one or more of the sports
over which the AAU' has jurisdiction.
These include men’s and women’s bas-
ketball, baton twirling, boxing, gym—
nastics, handball, judo, long-distance
running, physical htness, men’s and
women’s swimming, age-group swim-
ming, synchronized swimming, men’s
and women’s track and field, girls’ age-
group track and held, volleyball, walk-
ing, water polo, weightlifting, and
wrestling.

In a communication from Captain
Stephan M. Archer, AAU secretary, it
is stated, “To maintain the highest de-
gree of proficiency in all of sports, our
developing athletes must have the op-
portunity for continuous competition.

 

230

Here are some of the new paths being blazed.

The American student athlete is limited
to scholastic or collegiate competition
during the athletic season for his select-
ed sport. Our educational institutions,
do not and will not provide Off-season
competition for the student athletes, so
ihat each may develop his or her skills
and maintain peak proficiency and con-
ditioning. The responsibilty for the de-
velopment of American athletes rests
solely with Amateur Athletic Union and
other recognized sports governing
bodies.” ( This is the primary purpose
of the AAU Olympic DevelOpment Pro-
gram as stated in Notice #167, dated
May 27, 1963.)

From this basic purpose, then, the
NRA subcommittee acquires its deriva-
tion of purpose and secures a direction
of intent. Along these guidelines, the
Men’s Track and Field Subcommittee
of the National Advisory Committee on
AAU-NRA Relationships organized a
program of information to be used as
a handbook for organizations interest-
ed in track and field development on the
local, county, and. state level.

In order to achieve some concrete
results, the men’s track and field sub-
committee ascertained that uniform
standards were necessary if we are to'
conform to a national program. The
subcommittee adopted the age-group
breakdown as presented in the AAU
Junior Olympic Program as follows:

MIDcE'r DIVISION—Ages 11 and under
JUNIOR DIVISION—Ages 12 and 13
INTERMEDIATE DIVISION—Ages 14 and 15
SENIOR DIVISION—Ages 16 and 17

The age of a contestant on the first
day of a FINAL championship shall de-

termine his or her eligibility for the

entire meet. (This, of course, will fluc-
tuate with each local situation.)

RELATIVE to a program of events, the
subcommittee advocated adopting
the Junior Olympic Program as a guide
only. Limitations Of local situations
sometimes prevent conducting a full
program. The members strongly rec-
ommended that public recreation de-
partments conduct age-group events
and senior events in direct reference to

the AAU Junior‘Olympic Program and

the AAU Olympic Development Pro-
gram. Approved events are as follows:

MmcET DIVISION

Boys

50-yard dash

220-yard relay (4 x 55)

Standing broad jump

12-inch softball throw

'Running high jump

Running broad jump
Girls

50-yard dash

220-yard relay (4 x 55)
Standing broad jump
12-inch softball throw
Running broad jump

JUNIOR DIVISION
Boys

50-yard dash
100-yard dash
220-yard relay (4 x 55)
Standing broad jump
Running broad jump
Running high jump
8-lb. shot put
12-inch softball throw
Running hop, step, and jump
Pole vault

Girls

50-yard dash
75-yard dash
220-yard relay (4 x 55)

Standing broad jump
12—inch softball throw

Running broad jump

RECREATION

 

  

HI- ' :7: '  it" _ .-
5. - .-. ' -' ;.;. -‘- -

Peggy Bush from Walter Hays Play—
ground in Palo Alto, California, takes
OH in the broad jump and sets a new
city record in track and field meet.

 

   

INTERMEDIATE DIVISION
Boys

70-yard high hurdles
120-yard low hurdles
100-yard dash

220-yard dash

440-yard run"I

480-yard shuttle relay (4 x 120)
Running broad jump
Running high jump

Running hop, step, and jump
Pole vault

8-lb. shot put

Discus throw (high school)

Girls
50-yard low hurdles
75-yard dash I
220-yard relay ’(4 x 55’)
44-0-yard relay (4 x 110)
Standing broad jump
Running broad jump
Running high jump
12-inch softball throw
8-lb. shot put

SENIOR DIVISION

Boys

IOU-yard dash

220-yard dash

440-yard run

BBQ-yard run

Mile run

44-0-yard relay (4 x 55)

880-yard relay (4 x 220)

Mile relay (4.» x 440)

120-yard high hurdles

ISO-yard low hurdles

Running high jump

Running broad jump

Running, hop, step, and jump

Pole vault

12-lb. shot put

Discus throw (high school)
Girls '

100-yard dash

220-yard dash

* See Note under Competitive Regulations

MAY, 196 ’l

440-yard relay (4 x 110)
50-yard low hurdles
Standing broad jump
Running broad jump
Running high jump
12-inch softball throw
8-11). shot put

ALTHOUGH the distances in all events
on the Olympic Games schedule
are calibrated in meters, we realize that
most available facilities in this country
are not laid out in metric distances.

Therefore, the AAU Olympic Develop-

ment Track events approved for men
are as follows:

IOU-yards
220-yards
440-yards
BBC-yards
120-yard hurdles
44-0-yard hurdles
One mile

Three miles

Six miles
Two-mile steeplechase
High jump

Pole vault
Broad jump
Triple jump
Shot put

Discus throw
Hammer throw
Javalin throw
440-yard relay

To facilitate the functions of the

committee, Donald Bragg, fomier Olym-

pic champion, currently with the Green
Acres open-space development program
in Trenton, New Jersey, was appointed
as the liaison between, the subcommittee
and the United States Olympic Com-
mittee. It is hoped that by coordinat-
ing the struggle for international ath-
letic prowess, we can achieve a higher
glory than if we pursued the same goals
down “different roads together.”
Members of the subcommittee have
been assigned to various geographical
areas of the country. These representa-
tives will be feeding information to lo-
cal departments through the state rec-
reation societies and by direct mailing.
All NRA members are asked to con-
tinue, to expand on or. to initiate some
form Of a track and field program. The
responsibility Of developing athletes
lies within the recreation profession as

much, if not more so, as it does in our
schools. Over fifty-five million Soviet
athletes have been taking part in a mass
screening program to select and train
candidates for Soviet Olympic teams.
In recent years, some Of the foreign
countries have developed leading ath-
letic stars in sports events that hereto-
fore were dominated by Americans. It
is evident that the reason for the rapid
development of many foreign athletes
can be attributed solely to the year-
round competition available to them.

We must strive to meet this challenge
by Offering our athletes the full Oppor-
tunity to compete in their selected sport
beyond the established “competitive
season.”

Anyone desiring further information
on the NRA program should write to
Joseph B. Sharpless, Chairman, Men’s
Track and Field Subcommittee, Advis-
ory Committee, NRA-AAU Relation-
ships, Department Of Recreation and
Parks, Memorial Park, Livingston, New
Jersey, or write to the AAU directly at
231 West 58th Street, New York 10019.

\

BAT-OER
THE-TEE

 

 

Robert Bergstrom, Baseball Director,
Parma, Ohio.

HE B A S E B A LL
TPROGRAM for
the small fry in
Parma, Ohio has
elirninated many Of
the controversial
aspects Of organ-
ized baseball for
little boys and has' silenced the adverse
publicity received by such programs.
Parma, a suburban city in.the Greater
Cleveland area, is among the ten larg-
est cities in Ohio. Its recreation depart-
ment handles the entire baseball pro-
gram, consisting of thirty-five hundred
participants. Because Of the rapidly in-

 

231

 

Muriel Grossfeld, AAU gymnastics champion, has the rapt attention of women
physical education leaders as she demonstrates uneven parallel techniques
at Fairfax County, Virginia, gymnastics workshop sponsored by Waco-Porter.

creasing population, the program is
growing by leaps and bounds.

The children of the community have
the opportunity to play baseball starting
at seven years old in the Pee Wee
League. The Pee Wee League, consist-
ing of sixteen teams this past year, is
a bat-off-the-tee-type of baseball. The
tee, placed on the home plate of an or-
dinary softball field, is used instead of
a pitcher. The youngster comes up to
the tee and takes his swings at the ball
which has been placed on the tee by the
catcher. Twelve players are used, six
of whom are outfielders. The ball, when
hit, must travel past an arc drawn from
foul line to foul line through the pitch-
er’s rubber. Anything that falls short

is a strike. Three strikes or three fouls
is an out.

With this type of game every young-
ster is a fielder as well as a hitter, since
the pitcher has been eliminated. This
five-inning game moves rapidly along
with all the players taking part in the
activity instead of the normal pitcher-
catcher domination.

ARMA’s bat-ofl-the-tee league has

been in effect for the past six years
and has gathered momentum each year.
What makes this program special lies
not in how the game is played, but in
how the youngsters are organized and
handled throughout the summer. The
youngsters report to an organizational

232

clinic meeting at one of Parma’s fifteen
diamonds to register after school has
closed for the summer. They are then
placed on a team consisting of eighteen
players, given a team name, contract
cards, and the complete medical pro-
gram is explained to them. Each team
is given a time and date to report for
its first meeting and practice. At this
time, the supervisor of the Pee Wee
League takes over his full organization-
al duties. This supervisor, as well as all
of Parma’s baseball supervisors, is a
school teacher with a coaching or physi-
cal-education background. He spends
the day with the youngsters on various
teams in this age division. He not only
instructs the boys in the proper tech-
niques and rules of the game, but he
umpires the games as well. However,
he is known to the boys as “coach.”
Parents are not permitted to inter-
fere with the operation of the league
or the games. Only one parent is per-
mitted on the field to serve in the ca-
pacity of advisor to the boys with the

understanding that the league super?

visor has full authority. Since the
games are played during the day start-
ing at 9:00AM, most of the mothers ac-
company their children to the field but
are only permitted to watch their hour
and a half sessions. No parental crit-
icism of any kind is permitted while in
attendance.

‘Every boy on the eighteen-member
team is required to play in at least two

innings of the game. This rule assures
each boy the opportunity to play and
gives him the incentive to practice.
Since the boys were placed on a team
by the league supervisor and because
of the participation rule, no team will
ever be classedas “loaded.”

At the conclusion of the summer the
two top teams play a best two-out-of—
three series in what is labeled the
“Parma Pee Wee Series.” These three
games are the only games played in
the early evening. The entire commu-
nity is proud of this recreation activity
and look forward to each year’s
“series.” Mayor James W. Day and the
city council have given their whole-
hearted support along with the able as-
sistance of recreation commissioner
Harry Rosewicz. Many communities
have copied the Parma Pee Wee pro-
gram and have been successful.

After graduating from the seven- and
eight-year-old Pee Wee League, the
youngsters are placed in the nine- and
ten-year-old division. This system con-
tinues by two-year age intervals
throughout the entire junior baseball
program and operates in the same way.

Watching these kids hitting, run-
ning, and fielding on each play, seeing
them participate in each game, seeing
the program organized and operated by
educational personnel, seeing very lit-
tle parental interference, and seeing the
expression on each youngster’s face
when he comes up with a big play, spell
the success of this program.

 

GYMNASTICS
WORKSHOP

 

ORE THAN 160 elementary and
M high-school athletics instructors
attended a one-day gymnastics work-
shop in Fairfax County, Virginia last
summer conducted by Tom Maloney,
gymnastics coach of U. S. Military
Academy, in cooperation with the Fair-
fax School District. Assisting Mr. Ma-
loney as demonstrators were Jay Wer-
ner, assistant gymnastics coach at West
Point, and Mrs. Muriel Grossfeld, AAU
gymnastics champion. Since few of
the physical-education leaders attend-

RECREATION

ing had taken courses in gymnastics ap-
paratus work or gymnastics teaching
techniques, the day-long program fea-
tured elementary gymnastic skills and
basic work with the apparatus.

The workshop began with a general
briefing session at which John Grinnell,
physical-education supervisor for Fair-
fax County, welcomed the assembled
group and introduced Coach Maloney
and his assistants. Coach Maloney ex-
plained the program for the day and
the briefing session concluded with the
showing of a color movie Gymnastics
at West Point, which illustrates basic
skills on the sidehorse and parallel bars
and the techniques used to teach these
skills to students. The film is one of
a series of educational films on gym-
nastics being produced as a public serv-

bars, long horse, general gymnastic
skills, horizontal bars, and rope climb-
ing. The afternoon course for the
women included uneven bars, balance
beam, and synchronized group activi-
ties. In addition to demonstrating these
various skills, the workshop instructors
illustrated techniques used for teaching
them to students. The Fairfax County
teachers were supplied with charts and
other training aids to assist them in
teaching their own students in the com—
ing school year.

The day’s program ended with a

 Arr PATHS LEAD To...

gymnastics show in the high-school gym
after the supper hour. The two-hour
show featured demonstrations of ad-
vanced gymnastic routines by Mr.
Werner and Mrs. Grossfeld, who were
joined by local gymnastic groups from
an elementary boys’ school and a local
private gymnastic group.

Most of those who attended the work-
shop had never seen demonstrations of
this type before. The group expressed
keen interest in attending intermediate
and advanced gymnastics workshops in

the future. #

 

  

ice by the Porter Athletic Equipment
Division of the Waco-Porter Corpora-
tion, sponsor of the gymnastics work-

  
    
 

MIRACLE TRAIL BLAZER SLIDE—you can

stop worrying about accidents when you
install this slide. Stairway is much safer
than conventional ladder and gives smaller

shop. The workshops are entirely ed-
ucational in nature and are being spon-
sored by Porter distributors in coop-
eration with school authorities through-
out the country.

THE GYMNASIUM worksh0p program
had four major objectives:

0 To promote national physical fitness
through gymnastics.

0 To increase interest in gymnastics
as an interscholastic sport.

0 To provide inservice gymnastics
training to coaches.

o Ultimately, to train enough U. S.
gymnasts so that we equal or surpass
the number of gymnasts in foreign
countries which now outnumber U. S.
participants by nearly fifty to one.

The filming was followed by com-
bined instruction in tumbling and free
exercise in the high-school gym, after
which the group split into men’s and
women’s groups. The men’s group,
numbering about half those attending,
received instruction and demonstrations
in tumbling skills, floor exercise, and
sidehorse from Maloney and Werner.
Meanwhile, Mrs. Crossfeld taught basic
tumbling skills, floor exercise, and
vaulting to the women’s groups. The
instructors were assisted in their dem-
onstrations by teams of five boy and

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
    
    
 

DOME WHIRL—l

colorful, all-weather fiber

lass whirl is Ioads_of
un and good exercise,
too. (Model 304)

MIRACLE WAVE
SLIDE and

rowan ,  
CLIMBER   ..  ' '

is designed to fit existing
popular tower climber. (Model 55-5)

   

 
  
 

Fiber glass slide with stainless steel b-edway
8' high slide or our

children more security.

Fiber glass tunnel adds

interest and prevents
a stand-up sliding. One—
piece frame molded of
perma-color, heavy duty
fiber glass with no-slip
floor plate on stairway
and pre-slide platform.
:52? Stainless steel bedway.
Larger model also avail-
able. (Model TB-lO)

Watch the kids beat a path to your
playgrbunds when you install Miracle!
This colorful, imaginative equipment
is designed to attract and keep
children in the playground and out of
mischief. Whether you need one piece
of equipment or a playground full,
’mail this coupon today!

MIRACLE EQUIPMENT COMPANY
Box 215-C, Crinnell, Iowa

 
   

    
 
  
 

\
I
I
l
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

I

 
  

    

  

 
 

  

      
 

MIRACLE EQUIPMENT COMPANY

Box 275-C, Grinnell, Iowa
Please send me current literature and price list.

‘—-——-.———————-———o-————————-—,‘
.-—--——-o-—-——-—-—---—---—--—---'

. . h l PARK
girl gymnastlcs students from t e ocal BENCH g
' Modern design with m
comm‘fnlty' . M d I ma) fiber glass seats 2 S t
During the afternoon sess10n the ( ° 9 and bac" "35”" E 3 5
men received instruction in parallel g _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __,z
MAY, 1964 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 233

Let’s not sell the senior citizen short!

Selma Woodrow Gross

TENDER, LOVING CARE (TLC) has
long been considered the ideal
approach in the care of the young.
However, in working with the aged, the
TLC approach often magnifies the
problems that exist and helps these
people to dwell on their ills and fears.
To help the elderly to get outside them-
selves and minimize their problems,
creative activities are important.

Scientific studies in the field of aging have made enor-
mous strides in increasing the lifespan of people and im-
proving their health. Unfortunately, this same progress has
not been made in the field of recreation. Too many old-
sters are spending their hours of recreation in “busy work,”
at crafts and games ridiculously beneath their capabilities.
Because of loneliness, they grasp at any straw and get in-
volved in poor programing because it is the only thing
available to them. Let’s not sell them short! Let’s get older
pe0ple involved in brand-new activities—things they may
never have dreamed of attempting. Respect their intellect
and their potentialities.

Art is an ideal vehicle in opening up a whole new world
to older pe0ple. They often develop skills they never
dreamed they were capable of and this, in turn, increases
their self-respect and gives them added status in the family
and social group. It is a many-sided reward for them—
pleasure in the act of doing, pleasure in the finished work,
pleasure in the praise and admiration heaped upon them.
Caught up in the thrill of creativity, they reach new and ex-
citing heights they never thought possible.

However, it is well for the teacher of older people to be

 

 

MRS. GROSS is supervisor of senior citizens for the Bureau
of Recreation in Baltimore, Maryland.

_. CREATIVE
MAGIC FOR THE
SENIOR

CITIZEN

234-

U

aware that a well-planned program geared for young people
could easily defeat the entire venture if this program is
applied without consideration to older people. The motiva-
tions of the aged differ from those of young students. In
working with the aged, it is important to remember that
these people may have deve10ped many inhibitions and
fears during their lifetime that should be eased and h0pe-
fully eradicated. Some individuals will have physical
handicaps, and the teacher must use all her skill to help
them work a level that will not focus on the restrictions
of the handicap but rather minimize or sublimate it in the
intensity and satisfaction of the work being done.

AT THE BEGINNING it is helpful to offer a sort of “magic”
to the aged novice to present him with a certain suc-
cess in order to lessen the very real fears he may have of
failure and ridicule. Until some skill is developed, the goals
set should be limited—a simple composition in painting, a
small mosaic or some other craft that requires little skill—
for at this point the possibility of failure should be mini-
mized. This is a crucial point for the student. A work that
appears successful to the new artist and is a product of his
own creativity can be the abracadabra—the magic—that
opens the door for him to a whole new world of vision and
creativity. The confidence instilled at this point and the
satisfaction of seeing something “created with my own
hands” cannot be overestimated. By the same token, failure,
or rather what the student considers a failure, may result
in complete withdrawal.

Never more than at the beginning does the teacher need
warmth, understanding, and skill to instill in the student
the pleasure of doing with the emphasis on the activity
itself and not on the finished work. However, once this
skill is developed, the sights should be raised so that

  

the student does not get caught in the pointless web of
repeating the same thing endlessly. This is a delicate bal-
ance—not to discourage the student with tasks too difbcult

for him yet to keep raising the standards so that he is con- '

stantly stimulated with new ideas and approaches.

Motivating older peOple in the field of art may be accom-
plished in many ways. To see a display of work by others
of their age group hanging in an attractive location will do
wonders in stimulating them to join an art class. Suggest-
ing that the finished painting or craft may be given to a
grandchild or a friend will also add to their interest. Most
older peOple are anxious to keep active and they respond
readily to the opportunity to receive instruction in the field
of art. To stress the opportunity to be of service to others
as well as the entertainment and pleasure they will receive
will serve as a strong motivating force.

In setting up an art program for the aged the following
suggestions are offered.

0 Know the activity well yourself and choose one that you
enjoy. Be aware of any pitfalls and try to anticipate and
avoid them. ' a

0 Consider the desired goals. Offer pleasurable, creative
activities that will give numerous hours of relaxation and
satisfaction, giving everyone the thrill and satisfaction that
comes in the very act of expressing oneself.

0 Make explanations simple and concise. Use illustrations
wherever possible. Repeat directions frequently. Remem-
ber that some students may be hard of hearing and make a
special effort that they understand.

0 Adapt the activity to the group.

0 Put the main emphasis on trying and not on competition
or success. Praise often.

0 In explaining the activity use an enthusiastic approach.
Be positive.

r1.
@ PROGRAM

0 Plan frequent displays of the finished work. Hang the
work attractively and give it the look of importance it de~
serves.

Dr. Max Kaplan, a leader in the field of gerontology and
art, asserts, “The aging person needs guidance designed to
encourage, not to limit and stifle, him. Traditional stan-
dards are important to art, but as a leisure activity for the
old person, the approach is social, as well as aesthetic: what
art does to me as well as what I do with art. The pressure to
be avoided here is that of the pedantic teacher. The rewards
to be sought through the arts are personal expression; in-
sights into the use of materials and symbols; the response
of others; the integration of personality; a concern with
the concepts of beauty, form, balance, style, symbolic mean-
ings. These are not experiences reserved for the young. A
serious mistake that can be made is to underdevelop the
rapport between gerontology and the arts. The pressures
to be removed in this area are those emanating from un-
imaginative workers, overspecialized people who impose
uncreative activity upon mature persons and underestimate
their creative potential.”

BY RESPECTING the creativity innate within everyone,

regardless of age, an understanding teacher will be able
to develop a creative program that will be stimulating and
satisfying to the group as Well as the instructor. The com-
panionship and satisfaction that the class will find in this
kind of work will be a major reward. Although a creative
art program cannot solve the problems of aging, it can
offer the older individual a totally new area for self-expres-
sion. The complete absorption found in a creative activity
will help to shut out some of the worries and frustrations
of daily living and will replace them with honest content-
ment. #

 

Left, stained glass mosaics with a modern taste
-—-using a squeeze-bottle ketchup dispenser to
affix pieces. The complete absorption found in
creative activity helps block out daily worries.

MAY, 1964

Above, the abracadabra—the magic—of cre-
ativity can open the door to a whole new
world for the older person. Caught up in the
thrill of a new adventure, he forgets ills.

235

THE

 

Warren D. Pfost

NATIONAL MOVE-
MENTS and
celebrations have
t h e i r beginnings
where the hearts of
the people vibrate.
In a western Penn-
sylvania communi-
ty an idea, sparked by a local minister,
fanned by a retired railroader-column-
ist, and fed by a strong senior-citizen
response, has erupted into a movement
which has already gained momentum in
Pennsylvania and is destined to roll

 

across the nation.

The celebration of the third Sunday
in May of each year by the churches
of the nation to honor senior citizens
throughout the nation is the hope and
aim of the Senior Citizens Club of
Monroeville, Pennsylvania. Prepara-
tions are all but complete for the fourth
annual celebration of Senior Citizen
Sunday in Monroeville. Celebrations in
other Pennsylvania communities—
which had responded to a letter sent out
by the Monroeville Club in 1963, invit-
ing Pennsylvania communities to hon-
or their senior citizens—will also take
place as they did in 1963. These com-
munities include the Borough of Ali-
quippa, Prospect Park, Youngsville,
Ephrata, and Bristol.

The establishment of the annual
observance of Senior Citizen Sunday
in Monroeville, a community only thir-
teen years of age, is really surprising.
Monroeville consists of nineteen square

w-‘u—u

\ln. PM»? Is the director of recreation
in lionrnerille, Pennsylvania, and

serres as adrisor to the local Senior
(.ttiuns Club.

23!)

led the way—

rd SUNDAY IN MAY

Honor those who have

celebrate Senior Citizen Sunday

miles, population twenty-five thousand,
and is aptly designated as a residential
research center. Formerly a rural area,
eighteen miles east of downtown Pitts-
burgh, Monroeville now is a growing
suburb with the problems and growing
pains of suburbs throughout the nation.
The local business, industry, and re-
search complexes have attracted young
families from throughout the nation
and the world. The largest age grouping
(72%) is in the 26-45 year age group
with only three percent of the popula-
tion aged sixty—one and over.

WHERE, then, does the interest for
the club or for the recognition of
senior citizens lie? Local authorities
feel that, in spite of the youthfulness of
the community and of the majority of
its citizens, that three percent aged over
sixty-one is an important segment of the
population and must not be bypassed.
The membership of the club comes
from new families as well as long-time
residents and, in combination, represent
all facets of the community. The cele-
bration of Senior Citizen Sunday is one
form of recOgnition by the community
and its citizenry, but there have been
others. The local Rotary Club held a
luncheon for the senior citizens simply
to honor them as older counselors of the
community. Each year, the East Sub-
urban Women’s Club holds a joint meet-
ing with the seniors and serves as host
club. The women’s club reports these
meetings as a highlight of the year.

THESE EXAMPLES seem to fit a pattern
of younger folk wishing to associ-
ate themselves with an age group which

they have come to respect, but one with
which they miss an afhliation because
of their distance from home or the pas-
sing of their parents.

Senior Citizen Sunday was established
when the Reverend Sam Longenecker of
the Monroeville Church of the Brethren
invited the Senior Citizens Club of Mon-
roeville to meet with his church’s “Silver
Agers” group at a Sunday worship serv-
ice. Josiah Bailey, a retired railroader
and a member of the Senior Citizens
Club, took part in the service by singing
a duet with a friend of long standing
and reported the event by sending a
column to the local newspaper.

Mr. Bailey reported in the paper the
tone and content of the service and
sermon and interjected the idea of con-
tinuing the program on an annual basis
by writing, “One of the best things that
could be done to help those of advanced
years to get the most out of their re-
maining years would be to establish a
Golden Age Day in this town, to be
observed by all the churches and other
organizations.”

The Senior Citizens Club, as a whole,
voted to celebrate such a day annually
and as the second year approached,
capitalized on the proclamation of both
the President of the United States and
the Governor of Pennsylvania declaring
May as Senior Citizen Month. Further,
the club requested the mayor to issue a
local proclamation directing the setting
aside of the third Sunday in May as
Senior Citizen Sunday. The mayor did
so, and also proclaimed May as Senior
Citizen Month, using the recommenda-
tions of the rights and obligations of
senior citizens made at the 1961 White

RECREATION

House Conference on Aging as desira-
ble community goals.

THE CONTINUED SUCCESS of Monroe-
ville’s celebration has depended up-
on the cooPeration of the host churches.
The second year’s celebration was held
at the Evangelical United Brethren
Church and in 1963 at the Methodist
Church. The local Ministerial Associa-

tion has extended an invitation to hold
this year’s observance at the Episcopal
Church.

The host minister usually meets with
a committee of senior citizens and de-
signs the service of worship. In the past,
the senior citizens have taken some part
in the service either by providing musi-
cal selections or readings. The club, ac-
companied by the mayor, sits as a group
and has been the recipient of bouton-
nieres provided by the local congrega-
tion. The sermon is directed toward the
entire congregation but, in each in-
stance, has honored the older citizens
for their contributions of the past and
for the contributions they continue to
make.

As each day dawns, a thousand people
become sixty-live of age across our na-
tion. By the year 2,000, thirty-two mil-
lion of our nation’s p0pulation will be
in this age bracket—certainly a major
population group with which to reckon
——people who have a wealth of experi-
ence behind them, people who still can

and want to contribute to their com-
munities.

THE SENIOR CITIZEN seeks an active
role in the community through a
desire to be of service and through a
need to be recognized as still being use-
ful. Locally, this has resulted in the pro-
motion of Senior Citizen Sunday, con-
struction and operation of a variety
booth at the Community Fair, the col-
lection of used Chritsmas cards and
Shipment overseas, and other service
activities. The senior citizens have ac-
cepted the challenge to be an integral
part of community life.

The celebration of Senior Citizen
Sunday is a form of recognition which
each community around the country
can give the senior citizen to say thank
you for the contributions of those who
have‘led the way and'who Still-c0ntrib-
ute so very much. #

MAY, 1964

vase-vu-

 

Every coin-operated locker in service today
is a better locker because of Sentinel leader-
ship, for in each of them you’ll recognize one
or more familiar Sentinel firsts.

In today’s trend—setting Sentinels you’ll
find-mas profit and service conscious owners
across the country already have found-ma
whole group of totally new hrsts that set
the high standards by which all coin-oper—
ated lockers will be measured for years to
come.

They are aimed at a single objective—mto
supply the operating and service features
demanded by experienced users of coin-op-
erated lockers . . . the peOple who know most
about what coin-Operated lockers should be
and do when it comes to cutting costs, speed-
ing up bathhouse traffic and serving more
people with existing facilities.

N o wonder coin-Operated lockers will
never be or look the same again.

It’s a stimulating example of what can
happen when customers speak out -—-——and
when a manufacturer has the courage to
back their judgments with money, the engi—
neering skill to do it sensibly, and the man—
ufacturing craftsmanship to do it profitably
—-—-for both parties.

Is it any wonder so many people are say-
ing “Sentinel is a quality name that’s like
sterling on silver.”

Standard of {/76 War/0’ in [/79 CUM-Operated locker fie 0’

How” orwittgg'oa/o

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

.!
W!
l

j

.. w‘

237

    
    

{.9
5
I

We ‘17" \g ‘
HBIP : 3/
You i 
With Your’/)
Workshops " .

135 skilled instruc-
tors in 100 major
cities, coast to

coast
JUST ASK US!

FREE cm

Write today for Tandy's big
112 Page Craft Catalog
\__—_"

@721 MY?

P. 0. Box 791—DL Fort Worth, Texas

 
  

100%
ALUMINUM

0
EXTRA HEAVY-DUTY Tennls
LIFETIME

CONSTRUCTION Tables

Exclusively Designed for Intensive
Use in All Public Recreation Areas

INDOOR and OUTDOOR
x, OFFICIAL

REGULATION 
SIZE and BALL 

‘5

Table

\
\
‘ I I

~

and Rigid Le
Models

ATTRACTIVE NON-CLARE
GREEN SURFACE with WHITE LINES

ELIMINATE MAINTENANCE
& REPLACEMENT PROBLEMS

USED WORLD-WIDE IN: Municipal Recrea-
tion Centers, Colleges, schools, Armed
Forces, Clubs. Parks, etc.

for Full Details Write:

ALL METAL TENNIS TABLE 00.
Dept. T — Box 142, Teaneck, N. J.

Sou nd-P roofed
Surface

 

238

IT’S YOUR MOVE!

The popularity of board games waxes
and wanes in cycles not unlike the ever-
recurring “revival” of folksongs. To-
day more peOple than ever before are
playing chess and checkers or variations
thereof and are buying the new board
games sold in stores and promoted on
TV. Puzzles of all sorts are under-going
a similar revival. Here are two new
board games to give a flllip to the rec-
reation center gameroom or that rainy-
day program.

Ghana

A GAME for two players, Ghana was
invented by a father-and-son team,
Arthur and Wald Amberstone of Brook-
lyn, New York. The board used is es-
sentially an uncolored checkerboard,
the squares measuring two inches by
two inches. The playing held is thus
sixteen inches by sixteen inches which,
with a one-inch margin bordering it,
makes the over-all size of the board
eighteen inches by eighteen inches. It
can be made of cardboard, masonite, or
wood and the design drawn with a black
crayon pencil.

The pieces are round, bevelled discs,
seven-eighth inch in diameter. The stones
used for playing Co make excellent
pieces. If the pieces available are larg-
er or smaller than seven-eighth inches,
the squares of the board can be made
larger or smaller accordingly. Four
stones should fit neatly into a square.
Go stones can be bought at a number of
Japanese import houses ( the M iya Com-
pany, 373 Park Avenue South, New
York City, for one). The touchstones
are simply painted Go stones. Airplane
dope (gluey preparation) will serve
this purpose very well.

The two players thus face a board
which is a grid of sixty-four squares,
eight squares long by eight squares
wide. The pieces are called stones.
There are fifteen white and fifteen black
stones. Each player plays with one
color. The player of white has in addi-
tion one blue stone and the player Of
black, one red stone. The blue and red
stones are called touchstones.

To begin the game, the stones of each

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

color are arranged in the first two
rows on opposite sides of the board.
Each stone occupies one square. The
blue touchstone occupies the fifth square
from the left in the first row on its side
of the board. The red touchstone is
directly opposite 0n the other side of
the board. The object of the game is
to place the opponent’s touchstone in
such a position that it cannot avoid
capture in a single move.

Up to four stones of one or mixed
colors may occupy a single square at
the same time. A player may move only
the stones of his own color.

Movement is accomplished by mov-
ing a single stone one square in any
direction. If more than one stone of
a color occupy the same square, all the
stones of that color in the square must
be moved at the same time. Each stone
of the group that is moved is placed in-
dividually in successive squares in a
straight line, either diagonally or or-
thogonally, until all the stones of the
grOUp have been played.

A straight line terminates at the edge
of the board or at a square already oc-
cupied by four stones. If a group is
moved and the straight line ends before
all the stones of the group have been
played, the remaining stones are played
in the last square of the straight line.
When the last stone of a group enters
a square, and by so doing makes the
number of stones of both colors in the
square equal, the opposite stones are
captured and removed from the board.

The touchstone may move with a
group or by itself. If it occupies a square
jointly with stones of its own color, it
may move with them or without them
and they may move with or without it.
When moving with the group, it may be
played in any order. When it moves
alone, it may move one square in any
direction. If it moves into a square oc-
cupied by opposing stOnes, it captures
and eliminates all of them from the
board. It may be captured, by a single
opposing stone or the last stone of an
Opposing group entering its square. The
presence of other stones in the same
square does not affect the capture.

RECREATION

New stratagems in
board games

When a move is made which threat-
ens the opposing touchstone with cap-
ture on the following turn, the player
who makes the move must inform his
opponent of this by saying “Guard.” A
touchstone may not remain under guard
or move into guard. When the touch-
stone is under guard and cannot escape,
the game is won. The player who makes
the winning move says “Touch” in con-
clusion.

The game is drawn if (a) fifty moves
are made without a capture by either
side; (b) the touchstone is the last stone
remaining to a side and is not under
guard but may not move without being
subject to capture; (c) both sides are
reduced to their touchstones.

Focus

A FAST-MOVING GAME with a flavor,
feeling, and method all its own,
Focus, a cross between chess and check-
ers, was invented by Sidney Sackson of
the Bronx, New York. A copyrighted

booklet giving details in full is available

for $.25 from Mr. Sackson, 1287 Arrow
Avenue, Bronx 69, New York.

For two players, you will need check-

I...
QUEBEC
IEDEDEDI
IQDDEGEI
DEDEDDI
IEDEDEDI

    
  
  
  
 

 
  
  
  
 
  
 

 

Illustration 1 I

MAY, 1964

ers of two colors, eighteen for each. For
four players, you will need checkers of
four colors, thirteen for each (you can
paint your own by using colors sold for
coloring plastic models). Small poker
chips of the interlocking variety also
make excellent pieces. They are placed
initially on an eight-by-eight square
board from which three cells at each
corner have been removed ( see illus-
tration).

A move consists in moving a pile of
pieces as many spaces as there are pieces
in the pile. A move can be made up,
down, to the right, or to the left, but
never diagonally. At the beginning of
the game, all piles are one-high so that
only one space can be moved. Illustra-
tion 2 shows the possible moves of a
piece at the start of the game.

By moving up (Illustration 2) the
white piece lands on an empty space.
By moving to the right it lands on a
white piece forming a two-high pile.
By moving to the left or down it lands
on a black piece, also forming a two-
high pile, which is controlled by the
white player since a white piece is on
top. A two-high pile can be moved two
spaces. Three-high, four-high, and five-
high piles can similarly be moved three,
four, and five spaces.

A pile can be moved over an inter-
vening space whether it is empty or
occupied by a pile controlled by either
player. The piles passed over are not
affected in any way. A move may end
either on a pile or on an empty space.

Piles can be built up to a maximum
of five-high. If a move is made causing
a pile to become greater than five-high
all pieces in excess of five are removed
from the bottom of the pile.

Pieces of the opposite color to the
player making the move are captured
and are out of the game. Pieces of the
mover’s own color go into that player’s
reserves from which they can re—enter
the game.

A player in control of a pile may
make a move of less' spaces than the
total number of pieces in the pile. He
does this by lifting as many pieces off
the top of the pile as the number of
spaces he wishes to move. The rest of
the pieces stay where they are.

When a player has reserves he may,
on any turn, make use of one of his
reserves instead of moving a pile. This

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

WRITE FOR

LITERATURE

 1/ W

i eiime
mmumtom
DIVING BOARD

World's Finest Official Board

Rugged Aircraft Girder Construction,
Unequaled in Design. Durability and
Performance by any board built today.

Exclusive International Dlstrlbutors

    
 

    

*2- », “a?

PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.
ANDERSON, INDIANA, U.S.A.

WORLD'S lARGEST MANUFACTURERS OF FINE
PARK, PICNIC, PlAYGROUND, SWIMMING
POOL AND DRESSING ROOM EQUIPMENT

SE11 OUR TRON-HES WHOLE-
SALE IN YOUR CITY. FOR IN-
FORMATION WRITE ATTEN-
TION PRESIDENT.

 ‘ 5"‘mopms same... mm to

SUPPORT
YOUR
MENTAL
HEALTH
ASSOCIATION

 

is done by taking a piece from his re-
serves and placing it on any space on
the board, whether empty or containing
a pile. The effect of this piece is exactly
the same as if it had been moved from
another position on the board.

When it is a player’s turn to move
and he controls no piles and he has no
remaining reserves (in other words, he
cannot make a move) , the game is over

and his opponent is the winner. if:

239

 

ADMINISTRATION

 

TRIAL AND TRIUMPH OF TRAINING

A training course for playground supervisors grows
through experimentation in Canada’s capital city

A. D. Adie

LAYCROUND SUPERVISOR training is designed to provide
supervisors with the skills and knowledge they will re-
quire for their summer employment and serves as a
basis of selection. Each summer, the Department of Recrea-
tion in Ottawa, Ontario, has forty or fifty vacancies not filled
by returning staff members. For these posts there may be two
hundred and fifty applicants. With a limited permanent
staff, it is impossible to properly screen all of these before
the training course. All applicants are interviewed, and the
best qualified are invited to attend. Usually, twice the neces-
sary number are registered. This training period provides
an opportunity to judge the remaining applicants; and the
examination at the end of the course decides the final selec-
tion.

Originally, the course offered a basic knowledge of de-
partment policies and rules; then skills training was added,
and some sessions were devoted to arts and crafts, games,
and sports. This made the course a combined orientation-
workshop period. Instruction, given in the beginning by
members of the department staff, gradually became a func-
tion of nondepartment experts, on the theory that they were
better informed and more impressive. The peak of this type
of course was reached about 1957; since then its failings
have become too obvious, and it has been discontinued.

Evaluation of the work of the playground staff members
indicated that they might be skilled in performance, but
often were unskilled in instructing and in leadership tech-
niques. At the same time, there were signs of disinterest
in the presentation of theories and policies of the depart-
ment, while many situations were arising which could not
be handled by playground staff who lacked the “answers”
for these particular situations. It seemed that training
should prepare the supervisors for leadership and decision-
making rather than supplying them with too general
theories.

Thus, Ottawa’s training courses have been redesigned and
now train people to organize and conduct activities, in the

general sense, and to apply philosophies and policies as
related to actual situations.

tir v-wv

 

MR. Milk; is director of program for the Department of
Rerrmtion and Parks in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.

240

When the lack of leadership in playground personnel
was noted, there seemed a concurrent lack of confidence, on
their part, in the full-time supervisory staff of the depart-
ment. This appeared to arise from too much reliance on the
“experts.” Playground staff began to feel that the depart-
ment staff members were inspectors, errand-runners, fore-
men—anything but professional, trained personnel. Since
almost all training was by outsiders, there was a suspicion
that department staff did not know enough to train the
supervisors. This has been solved by almost total reliance
on department staff for training, thus showing that these
people are indeed eXperts in recreation.

In most past courses all applicants—whether previously
employed or not——-attended the same course. Those return-
ing for the second or third year might learn more, but the
increment of knowledge was negligible. Thus, for 1963, it
was decided to conduct two courses, basic and advanced.
Those previously employed, in Ottawa or elsewhere, would
attend an advanced course which would attempt a higher
level of instruction and thinking. New applicants would,
as before, attend a basic orientation course.

Both courses emphasize leadership and supervision, with
minimum attention to specific activity skills. For adequate
training in such skills far more time than one week would
be required. Instead, the department employs people who
have some basic skills, enough to enable them to expand
their abilities through experience and use of the manuals
which we supply.

In 1963, the department registered a hundred trainees
for forty-six positions. A further sixty-two applicants were
registered in the advanced training course. The basic
course gave major attention to recreation, program plan-
ning, public relations, publicity, safety, child psychology,
discipline, and volunteer leadership. Two three-hour
periods were devoted to demonstration-lectures on leader-
ship, one in arts, one in games. Through specifying these
fields, the leadership sessions were theory and practice in
leadership which would apply to all activities. A further
four-hour period was devoted to organization and conduct of
team sports. The total course ran for four Saturdays, morn-
ing and afternoon. The fifth day was examination: a
practical or evaluation test in games leadership in the morn-

RECREATION

ing, and a three-hour written examination in the afternoon.

All lectures but one were delivered by members of the de-
partment’s program staff. The lecture on child psychology
was given by Sister Mary Andrew of the Ottawa Guidance
Clinic. Examination questions were set by the lecturer and
marked by the program staff.

The background of the applicants varied from no experi-
ence to ten years’ experience as a teacher or as director of
a children’s camp. The majority of applicants were high-
school students, although in 1963 a greater-than-usual num-
ber of applications was received from students and gradu-
ates of teachers colleges and universities. Ages ranged from
fifteen (rejected, since sixteen is the minimum) to thirty-
five.

THE ADVANCED COURSE placed emphasis on program
planning, playground administration, child psychol-
ogy, public relations, special programs, and stafrr relations.
It ran for two days and was conducted on a lecture-discus-
sion basis. No examination was set for this course.

The changes in training have resulted in a greater de-
mand for assistance from professional members of staff.
This is because of a greater awareness by the playground
SUpervisors of the requirements of playground program.
At the same time, there is a decreased need for direct super-
vision of the staff members in conducting programs. They
ask for help, not in planning basic programs but in planning
better programs; that is, their critical faculty seems im-
proved. In leadership situations they display more initia-
tive and understanding of the situation than in previous
years, and they seem more able to adapt and apply new
ideas to their program.

The advanced students, who had an opportunity during
their course to bring up problems based on experience and
to deve10p their ideas in conjunction with others, showed
a greater degree of competence than had second or third-
year employes in the past. All the advanced students agreed
that the form of the course was beneficial and would have
been equally so had they received such training in their
first year.

F OR 1964, the department plans an elaboration of the

course outlined, based on these results. Lectures will
be limited to four morning periods, approximately eight
hours. Four afternoons, twelve hours, will be devoted to
demonstration instruction sessions on leadership. They
will cover leadership in arts programs, leadership
in sports programs, participation sessions in program
planning, and discussions on child behavior and problems.
Lecturers will be drawn from the department’s program staff
and from private agencies in Ottawa, thus striking a bal-
ance between departmental and outside lecturers. As in the
past, the last day will be devoted to practical tests and
written examinations.

The advanced course will run two days. The subjects will
be grouped under five major headings: program planning,
special events, playground program for teenagers, programs
for girls, and child and teenage psychology. One more
session on general problems and specific questions will
make up a total of six half-day sessions.

MAY, 1964

 

For those persons who attended the advanced course last
year there will be a one or two-day seminar sometime short-
ly after the regular training courses. This project will de-
vote itself to presentation of ideas by those attending and
general discussion of ideas and problems. The staff member
in charge will be a discussion leader and commentator
rather than a lecturer or director.

WHILE IT MAY APPEAR that these courses pay little atten-
tion to the theory and philosophy of recreation, this
is not actually true. Although there is not much lecture
material bearing directly on recreation theory, all lectures
are checked to insure adherence to the philosophy and all
lecturers emphasize the theories that apply to their sub-
jects. In this way, the students can see the relationship of
principles to practice.

The Ottawa Department of Recreation and Parks has
reached the conclusion that the approach outlined here will
best prepare the playground supervisors for their duties.
By giving them a basic understanding of the reasons and
methods, they are able to decide on the detailed applica-
tions. They learn the principles in terms of practical
reality rather than in terms of idealism and abstract theory.
This will help them face the discouragements they are
bound to meet during their summer’s work. In all, they are
prepared to approach the task as work, in its best sense,
not as a game. They will not find glamor, nor will they find
diversion; but they will find satisfaction. #

Muscle building fun’s the
thing with Game-Time's all
new 16' long, 8’ high play-
ground sensation. Kids can
climb, slide, shinny and
balance on the Imagineered
"Catty".
- Competitively priced for
W competitive play . . .
i. , At only $228.00 . . . Rush
 u ,5 orders Now!
ve him! i 13’ ‘L‘u

l

n. \

3x I l .

- WRITE FOR FREE CATALOG
Klds 10 Prices F.0.B. litrhfield, Mich.

s GAME-TIME, INC-

e 616 Jonesville Road Litchtield, Michigan

Subsidiary of Simpson Mfg. Campany
Manufacturers af Imagineered Playground Equipment

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 241

INSTITUTE
ON

COMMUNITY ORGANIZATION

W. C. Sutherland

ECREATION and park executives
R report that eighty to ninety per-

cent of their time is spent on
matters pertaining to community or-
ganization. This is understandable,
since community organization is the
most effective means of maintaining a
reasonable balance between recreation
resources and the recreation needs of
people. Therefore, the National Recre-
ation Association’s Ninth National In-
stitute for Recreation and Park Admin-
istrators will deal with “Community
Organization.” It will be held in Miami
Beach, Florida, October 3-4, 1964-, just
prior to the opening of the 46th Na-
tional Recreation Congress.

The great urban surge is engulfing
America like a tidal wave and rapidly
is forcing most of the population to live
in major urban centers—possibly every
nine out of ten persons in the next gen-
eration. This means that communities
and their needs are constantly chang-
ing, thus making it imperative that rec-
reation executives keep up to date on
the trends and skills in such areas as
community organization. The Munici-
pal Manpower Commission estimates
that by 1980 at least three hundred
thousand new employes will be needed
for running some eighteen thousand
jurisdictions of local government within
the anticipated two hundred major
urban metropolitan centers.

Many recreation executives are now
serving in or adjacent to these major
metropolitan centers. Others are grad-
ually but surely being affected by this
new environment. In the future, most
of the recreation executives, particu-
larly those in the most responsible posi-
tions, will be located in these compli-
cated areas where interagency and in-

ter-government alliances must flourish
for the. public good.

.—

Mk. SUTHERLAND is director of the Rec-
reation Personnel Service of the Na-
tional Recreation Association.

212

  
   

The public wants more service but
at less cost. Community organization
and cooperation among all agencies,
public and private, are of vital concern.
Duplication and overlapping of costly
services will no longer be tolerated and
long-term financial commitments and a
high degree of interagency and inter-
government cooperation have become
absolute essentials. Recreation execu-
tives, along with other community
leaders, have no choice but to launch
a broad attack on mounting physical
and social problems of recreation and
leisure. This year’s Institute will give
those who were not able to study com-
munity organization while in school a
chance to catch up. For those who did,
this Institute will provide a timely re-
fresher course. Admission to the Insti-
tute is by advanced registration only
and those interested should apply early.

INSTITUTE FACULTY

  

Mr. Ylvisalcer

Mr. Sampson

HE Institute faculty will include
Paul Ylvisaker, director of the
public affairs program of the Ford
Foundation, one of the foremost au-
thorities on “Community Problems
and Organization,” and Charles Samp-
son, a nationally known specialist in
community organization and director
of administration of the United Com-
munity Funds and Councils of America.
These two national authorities will be
assisted by additional personnel of
their own choosing from local Oper-
ating programs.
Mr. Ylvisaker joined the Ford Foun-
dations public affairs staff in 1955. His
particular concern is with urban and

regional problems. Before coming to
the foundation, Mr. Ylvisaker was exec-
utive secretary, and later consultant, to
the mayor of Philadelphia. He was
assistant professor of political science
at Swarthmore College from 1948 until
1953 and associate professor from '1953
to 1955. In 1953-54, Mr. Ylvisaker was
staff director of the Inter-University
Case Program at Swarthmore, after
having been a case writer for the pro-
gram in 1949-50 and in 1952. He lec-
tured at the Institute of Local and State
Government at the University of Penn-
sylvania in 1952 and in 1953. In 1951-
52, he was a Fulbright Senior Research
Scholar in the United Kingdom.

He is the author of The Battle of Blue
Earth County (1949), The Natural
Cement Controversy (1950) and, with
Paul Bedard, The Flagstant Federal
Sustained Yield Unit (1957), all pub-
lished by the Inter-University Case
Program; also of Inter-Governmental
Relations at the Grassroots (1956),
published by the University of Min-
nesota Press. With Martin Meyerson
and Barbara Terrett, he was editor of
the November 1957 issue of the An-
nuals on “Metropolis in Ferment.”

Mr. Ylvisaker served as a member
of the United Nations team of advisers
to the government of Japan under its
program of technical assistance to ad-
vise on the planning of the Hanshin
Metropolitan Region during the sum-
mer of 1960. He has also served as a
member of the Area Deve10pment Ad-
visory Board of the Committee for
Economic Development. In 1961-62,
he was a visiting professor in politics
at the Woodrow Wilson Graduate
School, Princeton University.

Mr. Sampson joined the United
Community Funds and Councils of
America as director of field service in
1956. Previously he had been budget
analyst for the Greater Boston Com-
munity Fund (1938-1939); director
of the Neighborhood Units Bureau,
Providence Council of Social Agencies
(1939-1940); and Council of Social
Agencies (1940-1943); executive sec-
retary of the Troy, New York, Com-
munity Chest and Council of Social
Agencies (1946-1950); and associate
director of the Campaign and Finance

Service, Community Chests and Coun-
cils of America, Inc. (1950-1955).

RECREATION

NOTES FOR THE ADMINISTRATOR

 

RESCALING FEES AND CHARGES

ONTINUED operation of Camps Valcrest, Seeley, Radford,
C and High Sierra for a three-year period by the Los
Angeles City Recreation and Parks Department was author-
ized recently by the city’s Recreation and Park Commission.
The decision was made after consideration of statements
made at a public hearing on the camping program. Control
Of another facility, Decker Canyon Youth Camp, will be
shifted to another agency, either the county or the school
districts, or a youth-serving agency if no public body wishes
to acquire it. The department will also continue to Operate
Whitmore Hot Springs swimming pool, which is located in
the eastern High Sierras.

The commission adopted a five-point program for Oper-
ation of Camp High Sierra, a family vacation spot operated
on the American plan, Camps Seeley and Radford in the
San Bernandino Mountain area, and Camp Valcrest in the
Angeles National Forest area. The latter three facilities are
reserved by organizations which provide their Own food
and programs. Following is the five-point program adopted
by the commission:

1. That the new camps section authorized by the board
vigorously promote the department-Operated facilities.

2. That strong emphasis be put on day-camp services for
children in each of the department’s nine districts within
the city Of Los Angeles.

3. That the use Of Hollywoodland Girls Camp and Griffith
Park Boys Camp—when the latter is rehabilitated and re-
opened—be expanded tO assure maximum year-round use
of each facility.

4. That fees for all camping services be set at proper
levels, and that those camps which should be self-supporting
be made so.

5. That the Crowley Lake fishing program be continued

under the present cooperative arrangement with the depart-
ment of water and power.

The new schedule provides for an $8.50 fee for Los An-
geles residents and $10 for nonresidents at Camps Valcrest,
Radford, and Seeley. Spring, fall, and winter weekend
camping fees at Camps Radford and Seeley were increased
from $1.25 a night to $1.75 for residents and $2.25 for non-
residents. Camp Valcrest’s weekend fees were increased
from $1.25 to $1.75 for residents and $2 for nonresidents.

Rates for Los Angeles City residents using Camp High Si-
erra have been increased from $7.50 to $8.50 for campers
fifteen years of age and over; from $6 to $7 for those six
to fourteen years of age; and frOm $4 to $4.50 for those
two to five years Of age. Daily fees for nonresidents at Camp
Hi will be increased from $7.50 to $9.50 for those fifteen
years of age and over; from $6 to $7.50 for those six to
fourteen years of age; and from $4 tO $5 for those two to
five years. There will be no charge for youngsters under
two years Of age, residents or nonresidents. Rates at Holly-

MAY, 1964

woodland Girls Camp were increased from $20.25 to $22.25
for week-long outings. The weekend outing fee will remain
at $9.25.

0 Park-pavilion, recreation-center, and day-camp fees will
also be higher in Fort Wayne, Indiana. The city Park Board
says the increases are in line with a declaration in its 1962
Annual Report that the lack of adequate charges constitutes
the “present major weakness of our park department.” It
noted that some park systems get nearly a third of their
operational funds from fees, whereas the Fort Wayne sys-
tem recovers only about five percent. The board points out
that the increased fees were recommended in an efficiency
study made for United Chest-Council by Professor Charles
Brightbill of the University of Illinois in 1962. The biggest
1964 increases will be in pavilion rentals.

0 In Wisconsin, camping fees at state parks have been
increased by the State Conservation Commission. The boost,
from $1 to $1.50 a night for tents and trailers, was made
to make Wisconsin rates conform with Michigan and Min-
nesota camping rates.

Fully tested in open seas
and inland lakes, Arben
buoys keep your water-
ways safely marked season after season.
Shipped to you completely assembled at
lower cost than reconditioning old buoys.

)QErough Outer Shell
Urethane Foam-filled
Sectionized for Easy Maintenance

Stabilizing Float

Raised, Bright Markings

Write today for details and prices on these and
other Arben Marine Products. Dept. B.

rben Marine Products, Inc.
P.0. Box 35055. Los Angeles, Calif. 90035

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 243

STATE

AND

LOCAL
DEVELOPMENTS

ELVIRA DELANY

 

MARYLAND. Baltimore County’s network of local recre-

ation facilities will be expanded during 1964. County Parks
and Recreation Director Hubert I. Snyder says local recre-
ation councils have requested operation of twenty-five new
playgrounds at seventeen new centers. During 1963, the
county operated a hundred playgrounds and ninety teenage
and preteen centers. In the budget request for 1964, funds
were requested for ten new playgrounds and nine new teen
and preteen centers. Mr. Snyder says the small increase,
less than the number of requests, was based on past experi-
ence. He added, however, that funds would be found from
other categories should more centers qualify than expected.
“We have never yet refused any council which has been able
to meet the conditions,” he said.

Under the conditions, the department supplies paid lead-
crship and custodial services for the playgrounds and teen
centers, and makes the facilities available, usually in schools.
The local recreation council must pay for the equipment and
supplies, as well as providing for volunteer leaders from its
own ranks. Especially enthusiastic about the growth of the
centers for teenagers, Mr. Snyder said: “The problem of
teenage recreation is one of the most serious in the county,
and we want to give it more emphasis in our program.

NEW JERSEY. A report issued recently by the State
Conservation Department on the progress of New Jersey’s
Green Acres program shows that work is under way for
developing 53,568 acres into recreation areas. Another
14,197 acres have been purchased or are under contract,
and work will start soon. New Jersey’s Green Acres program
was started in 1961 when the state’s electorate approved a
Green Acres bond issue providing $40,000,000 for purchase
and development of forest and recreation land by the state
and $20,000,000 to be used to match local and county funds
for land purchase. Thus far, the state has allocated $34,800,-
000, the federal government has contributed $3,200,000,

and counties and municipalities have authorized $10,900,-
000 in matching funds.

NEW" YORK. A better understanding by all interested

parties of New York’s future forest land-use problems was
the principal outgrowth of the recent New York State Forest

244

Land Use Conference. More than three hundred people in-
terested in the future of New York’s fifteen million acres of
forest land attended the one-day conference. Among the
topics discussed were the problems of increased state owner-
ship, the importance of wilderness, the economic problems
of private landowners, the need for more coordinated plan-
ning, the possibility of pay-as-you-go recreation, and the
important role of multiple use in the state’s forests. R. Wat-
son Pomeroy, chairman of the state’s Joint Legislative Com-
mittee on Natural Resources, set the scene in his keynote
address when he said, “Two hundred thousand acres are
being retired from farming each year, and this land is re-
verting to forest cover. What we do or don’t do now will
determine whether future generations inherit a creeping
wasteland or the bountiful dividends of nature.” Mr.
Pomeroy called for a mobilization of the owners and users of
forest lands in “a continuing and dedicated drive for pro-
tection and wise use of our forest resources.”

Mrs. Erastus Corning II, president of the Garden Club of
America, spoke of the importance of our forest lands in
serving our social and spiritual needs, and said, “Wilderness
and forest lands in the primitive national landscape are an
essential part of our American heritage, and it is the duty
and responsibility of this generation to preserve the few re-
maining areas.”

The conference resulted from the efforts of five educa-
tional, government, and private organizations in the state.
Cooperating were the New York State Conservation Depart-
ment; the New York State College of Agriculture, Cornell;
the State University of Forestry, Syracuse; the New York
State Conservation Council; and the New York Forest In-
dustries Committee.

QUEBEC. Completion of a new bridge across the creek in
North-End Raimbault Park brings close to completion the
development of one of Montreal’s few riverside parks. With
the seeding of the picnic area, the park will be fully de-
veloped by the time the 1964- season opens. The park is
situated on the shores of the Riviere des Prairies at the
mouth of Raimbault Creek and covers an area of thirteen
acres. The east and west sides are linked by a new pedestrian
bridge, six feet wide by fifty feet long, constructed of pre-
stressed concrete.

 

Loy Morrow, assistant director of the city of Miami Parks
and Recreation Department, addresses an outdoor meeting
of local citizens and presents the plans for the city's new
E. G. Sewell Memorial Park. The scenic park will preserve
the natural history of South Florida against deveIOpment.

RECREATION

Aging Differently in the Space Age

Continued from Page 219

 

a good idea if they did.

When I was twenty-six or twenty-seven, all the old people
I knew were pe0ple one Wanted to emulate; they were lively.
They tatted without their glasses. They could still read fine
print. Their minds were alert. They were a little deaf and
they had a lot of rheumatism, but nevertheless they were
lively, interesting people. The picture of aging, therefore,
combined with “you must live through diphtheria, measles,
whooping cough, scarlet fever, pneumonia and, some day, if
you’re good, you’ll be old”-—-this was a very rewarding pic-
ture. The young pe0ple who are growing up today are see-
ing the consequences of this attitude. A new generation
will have a different attitude towards human dignity and
will be able to set their sights quite differently.

We have to be continually aware of those people who
grew up in and outlived one age and are growing old and
dying in another, so that they will not set a standard or
depress the expectations of younger people, but rather,
that they will be able to communicate to younger people
other sorts of things.

In building a program for this kind of change, we must
keep out of the future_the deficiencies of the present, and
recognize that what we’re doing now is merely palliative.
It’s making up for the mistakes of the past; it’s making up
for the changes of the past; it’s making up for peOple who
were undernourished in their childhood and whose aging
process shows it. At the same time, we are designing for the
next twenty, thirty, or forty years a completely different kind
of relationship to older people who will be alertly related
to the young people and to the community.

WE COULD START, for instance, by eliminating “den
mothers.” Den mothers are one of the nuisances that
have been invented in this world. They are bad for little
boys and they are bad for the mothers. They just perpetuate
too much female society mixed up with learning how to be
a man. There are unlimited potential candidates for “den
grandfathers” around and they are at least as able to do
the things den mothers do—and a whole lot of other things
that den mothers can’t do. So, if we could set up grand-
parents’ and teachers’ associations, and get the grandparents
back in the schools; if we could set up den grandfathers
instead of den mothers; if we could do things such as are
being planned now by the new Oliver Wendell Holmes Insti-
tute, we might make some progress. The Oliver Wendell
Holmes Institute is planned for the afliuent, but, neverthe-
less, can have repercussions in models that we can use at
every level. The institute will offer courses of high academic
excellence to people’s parents and parents-in-law while
they’re on vacation; so that, when the older folks come home
after four mouths in Florida, they’ll be very up-to-date.

In fact, they’ll be more up-to-date than their children,
because they’ll have had time to learn something. It will be
possible to feed back into the communities remarkably well-
informed older people with time to read the newspapers,
and time to read Plato, and time to keep alive a knowledge

MAY, 1964

ECREATION is an extremely important aid to grow-
ing old gracefully. People who stay young despite
their years do so because of an active interest that

provides a satisfaction through participation.—DR.
WILLIAM C. MENNINGER.

 

of our tradition. They can teach their grandchildren and
their great-grandchildren what they know far better than
any young person. This is the nature of change itself.

WE HAVE BEEN so impressed in this country with putting
grandparents on the shelf because they came from
some other country, and they didn’t get on with the visiting
nurse. The general style of the row between the grand-
mother and the visiting nurse, plus the row between the
two sets of parents-in-law, has become very crystallized in
the way we handle things. We have assumed that, on the
whole, grandparents and old people are a liability. Old
people that only talk about the past are just as tiresome as
people who talk only about the present. But old people who
can describe vividly and meaningfully to young people the
steps from candles to kerosene lamps, to gas lamps, to elec-
tricity; who can describe the steps from nothing but the
newspaper and the telegraph to the Morse Code, to radio
and TV, and then Telestar—these peOple have an invaluable
contribution to make in building into our young people a
notion of flexibility—a recognition that the world twenty
years from now is going to be incredibly different from the
world of today.

In a relatively static society, too much association with
grandparents makes one static, but in a changing and
moving society, the only certain way that you can keep a
sense of change and movement is to associate with grand-
father and let him talk about the past, and fill the listening
children’s bones with the idea that the world has changed
incredibly. The world has changed, is changing, and will
change, and those who have changed most are the older
people. They are the best living example of change.

ALL THIS’is going to require a tremendous amount of
imagination in the way we structure the relationship of
older people to the community. We will have to sort out
those who are ready for retirement at an early age because
of the vicissitudes of their lives and those who need only
protection and cherishing and care. We can’t do very much
more for them now, because in the past we weren’t able to
do very much or didn’t try 'to. Yet, we must do this without
building a picture of aging in the future that is going to
include any of these things. Instead, we must develop a
picture for the future in which we will have the sort of com-
munity, the sort of housing, the sort of educational assist-
ance in which people never finish school, in which we never
puthusky 65-year—old people into ghettoes, and in which
we are able to use almost all the grandparent generation and
many of the great-grandparent generation in building a
society that is flexible enough to be continually self-renewing
-——-continually able to change. #

24-5

A REPORTER’S NOTEBOOK

 

Service Aides

ELDERLY VOLUNTEERS called Service
Aides are being used to assist other
aged persons in the community in a pro-
gram set up at the Henry Street Settle-
ment in New York City. The Service
Aides give concrete help, such as visit-
ing, shopping, filling prescriptions,
cooking for an incapacitated person, et
cetera. They also inform their aged
neighbors of existing community facili-
ties, encourage use of the community
center, and help make referrals to other
available social resources.

The three-year demonstration proj-
ect, supported by the Public Health Serv-
ice, will evaluate recruiting and train-
ing procedures, and hopes to set down
guidelines for similar service programs
throughout the country. If the program
proves successful in its early stages, it
will be extended to three other settle-
ments on New York’s Lower East Side.

Twice as Big

FAMED Hudson Guild, which has
served as a neighborhood house for
New York City’s Chelsea area since
1908, has embarked on an expansion
program which ultimately will double
the twenty-four thousand square feet of
space it occupied at the end of 1963.
The building which has housed most of
its activities since 1908 will come down
to make room for the city housing au-
thority’s new sixteen-story addition to
the Chelsea housing project. The first
four floors of this addition will be set
aside for the guild, and there will be
ninety-six apartments designed exclu-
sively for aged residents.

When the guild’s new headquarters is
completed, late in 1966, its facilities
will include a theater and gym, wood-
working and ceramics ShOps, an art
gallery, club and meeting rooms, and
administrative offices. To permit con-
struction to get under way, the guild
will move out of its present quarters
later this year and the management of-
fice-t of Elliott Houses and two large
apartments in Chelsea Houses will he
made available to it for the time being.

24-6

Though this will mean a temporary
contraction of facilities, the guild ac-
tually added to its quarters late last
year with the Opening of the newly con-
structed children’s center in Elliott
Houses, which gave it five new play-
rooms, as well as oliice space, confer-
ence rooms, and other facilities as an
addition to the three-playroom center
where it had been conducting its day-
care and preschool programs. The
guild is also planning to operate a four-
teen thousand-square-foot community
center and health clinic for the aged
which will be part of the 940-unit Rob-
ert Fulton Houses in the Chelsea sector.
The guild is also starting an expansion
and modernization program for its farm
in Andover, New Jersey, with emphasis
on new quarters for family use and for
the elderly.

The Robert Fulton Center for the
Aged, to be completed in 1965, will be
one of the largest in the country, de-
signed to accommodate twelve hundred.
Since 1959 the guild has been meeting
with city departments and social agen-
cies in the changing area to deve10p a

 

England sufiers from the litterbug too!
Mrs. Elizabeth Dalrymple (center),
secretary of Keep Britain Tidy, recently
visited East Orange, New Jersey, to see
how an American community handles
the problem of litterbugs. Here, she is
seen accepting a gift from Graham M.
Skea, superintendent of recreation for
East Orange, as Laura Freed, program
manager for Keep America Beautiful
looks on. The airplane in the back-
ground has been stripped down for
playground equipment.

design and plan of operation which will
represent the best thinking of every
agency concerned with the elderly.

Seven Landmarks

HE FIRST SEVEN sites found eligible
for a new National Registry of
Natural History Landmarks, being com-
piled by the National Park Service to
illustrate important segments of Ameri-
ca’s natural heritage, include Bergen
Swamp, about twenty-five miles west
of Rochester, New York; Elder Creek,
four miles north of Branscomb, Cali-
fornia; Fontenelle Forest, one mile
south of Omaha, Nebraska; Mianus
River Gorge in lower WestchestEr
County, New York; Rancho La Brea-
Hancock Park in Los Angeles, Cali-
fornia; and Wissahickon Valley, a part
of Fairmount Park in Philadelphia.
The Registry, complementing the
highly successful Registry of National
Historic Landmarks launched in 1960,
is designed to recognize and encourage
the preservation and protection of select
natural sites irrespective of administra-
tion or ownership——state and local
agencies, conservation groups, science
foundations, or private parties. Partici-
pation is entirely voluntary.

Archery Facts

THE LATEST FIGURES on archery Show
it to be one of the fastest growing
participant sports in the United States.
It has grown from 1,700,000 partici-
pants in 1946 to 7,500,000 in 1963,
according to the Archery Institute.
There are over thirty-live hundred re-
gional, state, and local archery clubs
in the United States.

In world competition, the United
States archery teams have won the com-

bined world’s championships in 1957,
1958, 1959, 1961, and 1963. During

that period of time, the United States
women’s team has remained undefeated
and the men’s team lost only to Finland
in 1958. The current women’s world
champion is Mrs. Victoria Cook of Min-
neapolis. The current men’s champion
is Charlie Sandlin of Flagstaff, Arizona.
Consumer purchase of archery equip-

RECREATION

 

The quarterly magazine with new
weaving ideas in each issue

Write for brochure

listing previous issues of special interest
for weaving classes in recreation proiects.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

1 yr. .-----._ $5 2 yrs .............. -. $9
3 yrs .............. .-$I2

Pan-American & Foreign rates $1 a year
extra. Single copies $1.35.

Handweaver & Craftsman

Dept. R

246 FIFTH AVENUE NEW YORK '|

Be Sure to Shop at

3...g

ARTS and CRAFTS
and SAVE

lEADERS OF THE NEWEST

Otiering our BRAND NEW, EN-
LARGED i964 CATALOG, chock

full of NEW MATERIALS for your
Recreation Program and featur-

ing same-day service. Send for
your copy now!

Sands

ARTS AND CRAFTS
COLCHESTER 10, CONN.

AWARD RIBBUNS

FINEST, gold leaf stamped, silk satin

 

ribbons for all needs. Write for full

information to  

P.O. Box 207, Goshen. Ind.

 

MAY, 1964.

ment totalled $29,300,000 in 1962, an
estimated $33,800,000 in 1963, and are
expected to reach $37,900,000 in 1964.

Puppetry Carnival

PUPPETEER Howard Mitchell and his

family of puppets headlined the
second annual Puppeteer’s Carnival
sponsored by the County of Los Angeles
Department of Parks and Recreation at
Sportsman’s Park. An estimated four
thousand children and adults viewed
Mitchell’s art and also presented and
viewed plays produced by youth groups
throughout the area. Plays were pre-
sented simultaneously every half hour
in five puppet theaters erected in the
Sportsman’s Park Community Build-
ing. Mr. Mitchell, a Whittier resident,
was formerly president of r the Los
Angeles County Guild of Puppetry. He
is also a noted magician and ventrilo-
quist. The free carnival was the culmi-
nation program for youth-leader pup-
petry workshops conducted in some
twenty-five communities throughout the
county during February.

Blessing of the Animals
THE Blessing of the Animals, a cen-

turies-old ceremony, in which man
gives recognition to his suppliers of
food, clothing and companionship, is a
traditional Easter event in Los Angeles.
This spring rite is held in Plaza Square
across from Olvera Street. Residents
bring work animals and pets to be
blessed for continuance of fertility and
health. The event is co-sponsored by the

Los Angeles City Recreation and Park
Commission and the merchants of
Olvera Street. Animals, including
donkeys, ducks, chickens, cats, dogs,
and birds parade in front of Olvera

Street and past an altar to receive the
blessing. A variety of animals from the
zoo also take part in the ceremony.

Archery Workshops

AN UNUSUAL opportunity to acquire
skills and teaching techniques in
archery is being offered in a series of
archery instructors workshops spon-
sored by the Outdoor Education Project
of the American Association for Health,
Physical Education and Recreation.

These will be held in Wisconsin,
Indiana, Iowa, Maryland, Michigan,

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

  
       
 

   

 
 
    
  
 
   
   
   
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   

last arsLongerf .-
approved for 
tournament

play!

Dayton steel tennis, badminton
and paddle tennis rocquets are
ideal for any school or play-
ground program. Their "extra
whip" improves every youngster's
game—gives a speed and
accuracy that cannot be

of racquet. , .

What's more, Dayton rac- 'v
quets are practically inde-
structible. Their steel strings
and tubular steel frames are
not affected by climatic . .
changes. No cavers or
presses are needed to «
protect'them. They won‘t ti
warp, splinter, rot or sag. i

Investigate them now.
Ask your local dealer
about them—or write to-
doy for complete infor-

motion.

nmnu ntcuun comm I

754 Albrigl‘tt St... Arcanum, Ohio

‘  court Iayuts
' i, tartmis ll
. i hadniiton are
yoursttrtln

asking.

STEEL RACQUETS

Fast pitch

or
Slow pitch

HAN NA

BAT/{I15

"6. It. .- DAT. OM.

HANNA MANUFACTURING COMPANY
ATHENS, GEORGIA

Official Softball Bats

are player preferred.

Tape. cork or fiberglass
grips give non-slip swings.

 

THE PERFECT PACKAGED SHElTER!

   
 

247

and Vermont. These short, intensive
workshops are designed for teachers
and leaders in schools, colleges, camps,
recreation departments, and voluntary
agencies, and include many phases of
archery. Those who are inexperienced
in archery will receive enough instruc-
tion to enjoy the sport and become
qualified to teach the fundamentals.
Others with skills and experience will
find new methods and teaching tech-
niques for a wide range of archery ac-
tivities. Some new approaches to learn-
ing archery and teaching it
featured.

are

For complete information write to
the Outdoor Education Project, 403
College of Education, Michigan State
University, East Lansing.

Jottings On The Cuff

0 Anyone for sharks? Small thresher
sharks have been stranding themselves
on the beaches in California’s San Ma-
teo Coast State Beach. When this hap-
pens, a San Mateo ranger grabs the
shark’s tail, drags the critter down to
the water’s edge on a receding wave,
and then runs like hurry, reports Su-
pervisor David W. Bedding.

0 Vancouver’s world-famous Stanley
Park is celebrating its seventy-fifth an-
niversary. The park’s totem poles are
now Hoodlighted nightly to provide an
added attraction to the scenic Indian
area.

0 Winter carnivals in New Hampshire
this year featured an ever-widening va-
riety of events and extended over a
longer period of time. The carnival in
Rochester was a ten-day project co—
sponsored by three service clubs, a ski
club, and the recreation department.

0 There are ants in the piazza at Los
Angeles’ Griffith Park Zoo. Visitors to
the zoo office can kibitz while a large
ant family goes about its regular ant
business in a glass case on the front
porch of the ofiice building.

 

+———-—

Building for Church Recreation
Continued from Page 223

m
Casweli-hy-the-Sea, and at the Associa-
tional (lamp Retreat. The church main-
tain:- a cabin at Ridgecrest, North Caro-

2‘18

lina, for groups from the church
throughout the summer for various
weeks. Efforts are made each year to
secure camp facilities, during the sum-
mer, where the church can draw aside
the youth for a whole week just to them-
selves, for worship, inspiration, discus-
sion, and recreation. Overnight retreats
are very popular. Other interesting
facets of the recreation program of the
church are a youth paper published by
and for the youth of the church, Youth

Review; fellowship affairs on a regular

schedule for all youth ages; banquets

and breakfasts.

LOCKERS
ARE OUR

SPECIALTY

 L01 OUR
 ' SIDELINE

perform as Specified.

COIN - LOK*

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

  
  
  
  
    
   
   
   
   
 
  

SYSTEMS,

A subsidiary of
AMERICAN LOCKER CO., INC.

At First Baptist, effort is made to
enlist the leisure-time resources of every
individual in the congregation regard-
less of age. The recreation program is
not to be thought of as a separate pro-
gram, but a definite part of the over-all
program of the evangelistic and educa-
tional ministry of the church. #

0 See also "Recreation and Your

Church” (First Baptist Church, Plain-
view, Texas), Recreation, December
1963; “The Seed of Wonder” (vaca-
tion Bible School program), Septem-
ber 1963; and "The Church and Re-
creation,” November i962.—Ed.

  

Gives You

34 Years of Engineering Know-How!

Our business—and our only business—for 34 years has been coin-
operated lockers. During that time we—and we alone—have pio—
neered the design and perfection of virtually every practical
improvement available in coin locks and lockers today.

For example, you'll never find a Coin-Lok lock in the locker door.
Sure, we used to put them there, but long ago we recognized the
extra strength and protection the double-thick steel channel_wall
provides. 80 that's where our locks are today. Result—security,
plus performance-proved trouble-free operation.

Of course our best references are Coin-Lok owners—thousands of
recreation areas, schools and public buildings in the U. S. and
Canada. Coin-Lok designs and engineers its lockers—and controls
the quality of those lockers. Coin-Lok manufactures its famous
Selectomatic locks—and guarantees every lock and locker to

*T.M. — American Locker Company. Inc.

Illi

INC.

        
   

RECREATION

1

Br FOR THE ILL 89? HANDICAPPED

+ A new and extremely interesting con-
cept in meeting the social needs of the
retarded has been organized by the
Irene-Kenmar Country House, Hurley-
ville, New York. The organization is
a nonprofit private agency that will
provide summer vacations for retarded
children together with their families.
Sixteen families will be accommodated
this summer. Included in the plans are
the non-retarded children of these fami-
lies. Fathers will be able to spend their
vacation periods and summer weekends

  
   
  
 
 

 
 
 

 

5/32" pin.

V
v’
\/
V
\/

SHAKE THE FRAME. With Coin-Lok you can’t! . _
struction assures maximum strength, resists stress or distortion In every
direction. A Coin-Lok design exclusive.

Morton Thompson, Ed.D.

with the entire family at the Irene-
Kenmar Country House. For additional
information, write Mrs. Irving Lazaroff,

255 West 18th Street, New York City.

4‘ Last Christmas morning, Santa
Claus drove into the Nampa, Idaho,
State School grounds, bringing a big
red-and-white sixty-passenger bus,
complete with radio, public-address
system, and elevator lift for wheel-
chairs. This was a very exciting gift
from the people of the state of Idaho,

against the
extravagant

claims of
others

And this is only the start!

WHAT ABOUT THE LOCK? Only on Coin-Lok do you get the patented.
exclusive Selectomatic——owner-adjustable for desired coins—most re-
liable lock in the field. On-the-job proved with thousands of locks in use
and millions of user checkings annually.

WHERE IS THE LOOK? Not in the vulnerable door location! Coin-bok
recesses its Selectomatic Locks in the adjacent channel.wall,_InSIde
double-thick steel for full security. No pilferage problems wrth Corn-Lek!

THUMP THE DOOR. No tinny clank—with Coin-Lok a good solid “whump”!
That Coin-Lok door is die-formed heavy steel with reinforced corners and
pry-proof 1” flanges all-around. Plus, if wanted, a reinforced rib section.

EXAMINE THE HINGES. Coin-Lok gives you by far the most rugged hinges
on the market. Not a cheap common leaf hinge, Coin-Lok hinges are
double-thick steel, full-looped for extra strength around a king-Size

Rigid cross-frame con-

Check the facts — ask any Coin-Lok owner!

*T.M. —American Locker Company, Inc.

  

  

COIN-LOK SYSTEMS. INC.
Dept. 55, 2” Congress St.
Boston 10, Moss.

Please send, without obligation, com-
plete information and specifications of
new Coin-Lok* Locks and Lockers.

 

MAY, 1964

 

Illi

Oldest and Largest Coin Lock Manufacturer

 
  
    

Name

     
  

Address

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

and from people all over the United
States. All the residents who could
walk or crawl were out to cheer the
arrival of this magnificent vehicle.
They crowded around, patting the
sides, going in and out, riding on the
wheelchair lift, and one boy even kissed
the front end.

This event was the climax to a great
statewide project to collect sixty-five
hundred books of trading stamps which
were used to make the purchase.
Groups, organizations, industries, and
individuals, mainly in Idaho but also
from throughout the United States,
responded to the school’s expression
of need and helped on the project.
Stamps were received from as faraway
as Connecticut in the East and South-
ern California in the West, and most of
the intermediate areas in between.

Bus rides are one of the recreation
activities that can be enjoyed by practi-
cally every resident in the institution
not completely bedfast. As long as the
wheels turn, the kind donors will be re-
membered by the staff and residents of
this institution.

+ Until recently, blind students could
not master courses of study involving
arithmetic symbols without a “reader’s”
direct interpretation. Now Dr. Abra-
ham Nemeth, a blind mathematics pro-
fessor at Detroit University, has de-
vised a special code enlarging the
braille system to include such symbols.
Now volunteer workers with the blind
are adding the Nemeth system tO their
training, certified through the Library
of Congress.

+ An annotated bibliography and
selected references on Use of Recrea-
tive Activity in Treatment of Rheuma-
toid Disorders is available from Come-

back, Inc., 16 West 46th Street, New
York City, in limited quantities for $.25
each.

+ The Personnel Standards Commit-
tees of the New York State Recreation
and Parks Society has been reorganized
for the purpose of upgrading profes-
sional standards and interpreting them.
The area of concern to persons working
with the ill and handicapped is the
Committee on Hospitals and Institu-
tions, composed of Dr. Elliott Avedon,
Dr. Morton Thompson, and Lionel
Martinez. This committee is working
towards the establishment Of “Stand-
ards for Hospital and Institutional Per-
sonnel” and possible guidelines for
New York State Civil Service examina-
tion construction.

DR. THOMPSON is director of the Na-
tional Recreation Association Consult-
ing Service on Recreation for the III

and Handicapped.

249

MARKET NEWS

 

0 THE PROFESSIONAL TOUCH. A complete kit of lettering
materials and equipment, to be used in the preparation of
overhead projection transparencies, permits clean, com-
pletely professional lettering and titling with ease and sim-
plicity, and without requiring any artistic training or abil-
ity. Called the Color-Stilt Transparency Lettering Kit, the
outfit offers a wide variety of type styles and sizes, all in
brilliant transparent colors. Letters are transferred from
lettering sheets to acetate sheets by merely rubbing them
with the supplied stylus. Once applied, residue removed, and
the sheet inserted in a 10’ ’ -by-10” standard transparency
mount, the titling is permanent, and will never fade, crack,
or chip off, and the Color-Stilt letters are projected in bril-
liant color.

The entire .kit is assembled in a compact drop-front stor-
age case of sturdy construction, fitted for each of the items.
For additional information write to Color-Stik, 219 South
18th Street, East Orange, New Jersey.

0 THE RELENTLESS ROBOT. A new telephone-answering and
message-recording device automatically answers any reg-
ular home or office telephone. The Ansey Robot is approved
for use with any telephone because it requires absolutely
no wiring or phone connections. The robot is simply placed
next to the telephone and is activated by induction whenever
the telephone rings. The telephone can be used at any time
in the normal manner simply by picking up the receiver
and dialing. The robot unit provides for twenty-four-hour-
a-day, seven-day-a-week telephone coverage.

The relentless robot sits silently next to any regular tele-
phone. When the phone rings the robot is activated by in-
duction and reaches out to pick up the telephone receiver.
The robot automatically greets the caller with an announce-
ment in the phone owner’s own voice which has been re-
corded earlier. This ten-second announcement can be
changed at any time by the phone as with a regular tape re-
corder. Next, the caller is requested to leave a message and
the robot makes a thirty-second tape recording of the voice
of the calling party. Finally, the unfailing robot reaches out
and hangs up the telephone receiver. Immediately, the unit
is ready to repeat this service for the next caller.

As an additional feature, Ansey Robots can be used for
letter and memo dictation. Two fully portable tape record-
ers in the robot can be carried about, or used in place, to
record and play back dictation in the office, home, or auto-
mobile. F or further information, write to Gasoilair Equip-

ment Company, 137 Thompson Street, New Haven, Con-
necticut.

0 Summit ALL ALONG THE LINE. A versatile new free-
standing arrangement of panels for all manner of exhibits
( art shows, craft displays, graphic presentations, et cetera)
consists of three or more eight-foot anodized aluminum

poles (diameter, 1% inches), with top trim caps and flat
padded feet. Fittings are available to support both framed
and unframed panels of inexpensive pegboard, homosote,
or plywood. The user makes his own panels (or has them
made locally) to fit exactly the space he has available.
Panels are painted, covered with fabric or left bare. These
Polecat supports can also be used as room dividers and
moveable partitions and can be set up to form any shape,

 

from a simple “V” to a long zigzag, a cross, or a maze.
It can add many square feet of exhibit space in minimum
floor space. For example, two double-sided 4’-by-8’ panels
supported on three poles in a “V” shape take up only inches
of floor space but add 128 square feet of hanging space.
For further information, write to the Brewster Corporation,
Old Lyme, Connecticut.

0 CLEARCUT. A new big eight-gallon-capacity engine-
powered athletic-field marker sprays lines one inch to four
inches wide. No need to hand pump; big 3H? Briggs and
Stratton engine does all the work. Spray gun detaches
quickly for marking yard-line numbers and other decora-
tions. The marker applies a new acrylic liquid under pres-
sure for long-lasting, clearcut lines. For complete informa-

tion write the American Athletic Equipment Company, P.O.
Box 111, Jefferson, Iowa 50129.

c SPACE MAKER. New all-aluminum prefabricated store-
house has a gabled roof with an approximate dimension of
seven feet wide‘by seven feet deep by seven feet high which
allows for nearly 350 cubic feet of storage and work space.
Can be set up wherever you have to store and keep miscel-
lanea: play and sports equipment, boat equipment, mowers
and edgers. It can also be utilized as a pump and filter
house. Comes in colorful baked-enamel finish inside and
out. For a brochure and further information about store-
house and units, write to Cabanarama Industries, 3601 N.W.
81st Street, Miami, Florida.

For further information, please write directly to source given and mention RECREATION Magazine.

250

RECREATION

RESOURCE GUIDE

 

 

" w -    «we
DEX T0 ADVERTISERS
Page

All-Metal Tennis Table _.__----_._.___--_._ 238
American Athletic Equipment _...___...__...___ 255
American Excelsior __..___-_--_..__-_.....--__ 253
American locker __..--__-.__..-...._.___.__. 248-9
American Playground Device _ ____-- 239
Arben Marine __.--____.____._--_....______._ 243
Ball-Boy ____..____-_-_._-___.__..----__-...._-s.. 227
Camp and Trail Outfitters __ ____ ._ 256
Classified __.__.._...--___,__________.____ 252
247
Dimco-Gray ___._.-__.___________.__--__. 2t5
Game-Time ______________________ __-_____ 24t
Gold Medal _.... ........ -_..._..___...___ 255

247
Hanna Bats ___._._._____--_____________.____ 247

...___.._____._______..__._ 247
Hillerich 8. Bradsby ________... Inside Back Cover
W... 215
Kay Enterprises __.__.--__..--- Inside Front Cover
Kwikbilt --__.--.._...__._._..______.__._-_-___- 247
MacGregor _..--_--______--___-._...____._-___ 213

 

Dayton Racquet _.____.______._.__________.__

Handweaver and Craftsman

Harter Awards

J. E. Burke .________...--___--

Mexico Forge  Inside Front Cover
Miracle Equipment _-___.._-_-__--_____.____ 233
._________. 256
National Association for Mental Health 239. 255
National Catholic Camping Association __ 256
Plume Trading _.. __________________ _-_.. 255

Monroe Company

Porter Sargent --.____.___....._ Inside Front Cover
Sentinel lockers _____________ ____ 237

Sico ._..___..._ ...... __ Inside Back Cover
S 8. S Arts 8. Crafts _-____.____..__.__..____ 247
Tandy leather _.._.__-__-__________.._____ 238

 

Toilatlex --_.____-___.___.....__. Inside Back Cover

Trophy World -__--_---_--_-_--____---_____-._-__ 239
 

 
 

 AIDS—Please Write Directly To Sources Given

ARTS AND CRAFTS

Use a spoon or a rolling pin on an easy-to-cut
printmaker's plate and make greeting cards,
announcements, invitations, book plates, et
cetera in single- or multi-color design. For in-
formation sheet and sample 3M Print-Maker's
Plate, write to 3M Company, Dept. CVP, 2501
Hudson Road, St. Paul, Minnesota 55119.

From Switzerland comes a washable synthetic
material called Swistraw manufactured in nar-
row flat bands for craft use and needlework.
lt resembles a transparent cellophane film, can
be used wet or dry, and is available in a variety
of colors in either matte or brilliant finish. For
further information and a catalogue of craft
supplies, write to Triarco Arts and Crafts, P.O.

Box 1386, Evanston, Illinois 60204.

Countless uses. Electra-stylus can be used on
plastics, glass, china, porcelain, ceramics, met-
als, leather, film to make etchings, monograms,
inscriptions, and any design you desire. Also
cuts better stencils. Use it in your letter shop,
for making greeting cards and tags, favors,
bookmarks, et cetera, and et cetera. For folder,
write to Electra-Stylus, 31 Cheyenne Boulevard,
Colorado Springs, Colorado.

EQUIPMENT

Magic eye. Thumb-size midget photo-control unit
for lighting operates one or more incandescent of
mercury lamps up to six-hundred watts for on-
at-dusk, off-at-dawn lighting, is guaranteed for
two years. Provides protection against afterdark
accidents and crime, calls attention to signs,
displays, vending machines, et cetera. For tech-
nical details on the Precision A-‘IOS Phatogon-
control, write to Precision Multiple Controls, lnc.,
Ridgewood, New Jersey.

Hard-to-find gym and field equipment included
in source book listing domestic and imported
gym items—uuniforms, apparatus, mats, acces-
sories, et cetera—with special section devoted
to important reference material and gymnastic
textbooks. For copy, write on organization letter-
head to Gymnastic Supply Company, 247 West
6th Street, San Pedro, California.

Everything but the water. Swimming equipment
catalogue offers racing lanes, training aids,
swimwear, and officials supplies. For copy,
write to Adolph Kiefer and Company, 2055
Railroad Avenue, Glenview, Illinois.

From an abacus to a zoom finder. Science cata-
logue includes everything for young scientists
(and their elders), amateur astronomists, hob-
byists and experimenters. Fry a batch of lenses
for optical iewelry, grow atomic vegetables,
harness sunshine, build your own satellite scope.
For program ideas that are really in orbit and
equipment to match, write for Catalog 641 to

I

Edmund Scientific Company, Barringlon, New
Jersey 08007.

MAINTENANCE

Pressure for clean-up iobs. High-pressure washer
cleans machines, pools, restrooms, animal pens
and cages, trucks without scrubbing. No air
needed. New 1.. A. Model 102 develops its own
pressure. Has two inlets: one draws water; the
other, cleaning solvent. Lightweight for easy
control and one-man operation. For information
write to L 8. A Products, lnc., 903 West Highway
96, St. Paul, Minnesota 55112.

Grassy-eyed? Rotary mower for hard-to-cut
lawns gives a close, clean cut in thickest growth
without clumping or bunching. Height brackets
odiust to five different heights for controlled
cutting. Optional grass catcher converts the
Levelawn to a lawn vacuum cleaner. For infor-
mation, write to Goodall Manufacturing Corpo-
ration, Winona, Minnesota.

Green acres. lllustrated catalogue shows plants,
bulbs, fruit and shade trees, fertilizing and
growing equipment and supplies for park and
golfcourse planting and maintenance. For copy,
write to Nurserymen's Exchange, 475 6th Street,
San Francisco 3, California.

O

Skill books. Streamlined texts and references for
various trades and professions could be real
program aids for your "shop" groups. Also
useful for your maintenance and sign depart-
ment. Numerous titles cover the various aspects
of pointing and decorating, lettering and ad-
vertising layout, carpentry and building, eVen
blacksmithing and horseshoeing. For complete
list of Drake Books, write to Frederick J. Drake
8. Company, 9 South Clinton Street, Chicago 6.

PROGRAM AIDS

From archery to wrestling. Sound slidetilms of
all popular sports included in 1964 catalogue
of 8MM loop films, 16MM motion pictures,
35MM sound slidefilms, and publications for
athletics, physical education, and recreation.
For copy, write to the Athletic Institute, 805
Merchandise Mart, Chicago 60654.

A nation’s songs. In 1964 song-slide cata-
logue called Songs America Sings are over two
hundred of the most popular favorites that have
been sung and loved at songfests all over the
country. For your copy, write to National Stu-
dios, 42 West 48th Street, New York.

Ideas for action. Catalogue of instructor teach-
ing aids is full of resources for all sorts of
activities and experiences: creative crafts, every-
day games, posters, physicaI-fitness programs,
science proiects, music, et cetera. For copy, write
to F. A. Owen Publishing Company, Dansville,
New York.

251

lnvisible aide. Stop gate crashers, eliminate
revenue losses due to unpaid admissions, and
control readmissions with the Blak-Ray Invisible
Readmission Control System. Fluorescent ink
becomes visible when patron holds his hand
under a black-light lamp. For further details,
write Dept. REC, Ultra-Violet Products, Inc.,
5114 Walnut Grove Avenue, San Gabriel, Cal-

ifornia.

From Alaska to Zululand. Rhythms, songs, and
games from just about everywhere are included
in catalogue of recordings and filmstrips. Here
are holiday songs and stories, arts and crafts
filmstrips, fitness activities, et cetera. Expand
your program horizons. For copy, write to Educo-
tional Record Sales, 157 Chambers Street, New
York 10007.

LOW-COST AIDS

Order these resources and references di-
rectly from source given (enclose remittance).

 

Handy and dandy. A pocketsized (3"-by-4 1A ")
Golf Guide includes rules, playing pointers,
tournament records, and a thousand and one
facts. Sell it in your pro shop, give it as tourney
consolation prizes, favors at banquets. Compiled
by Joseph Gambatese, the latest edition of the
guide is available for $.50 (plus $.25 for post-
age and handling) from Snibbe, Mott and

Associates, 30 East 38th Street, New York
10016.

Hello and welcome. Every community needs a
handy guide to its hobby and sport groups;
social, cultural, philanthropic ond educational
organizations; professional societies; et cetera.
This not only can be a public service but can

also be a fund-raising activity (let your senior
citizens tackle it). A good example of such a
manual is the New York Social Guide, whose
contents include the names of organizations,
purpose and activities, dates and times of func-
tions, average age of members, et cetera. It is
easy to follow and well indexed. Use it as a
guide for setting up your own community syl-
labus. Available for $1.00 from Recreation
Press, 138 Livingston Street, Brooklyn 1, New
York.
0

International programs and proiects. A Chinese
Moon Festival basket, 0 Wonder Box, an Eye-
It-and-Try-lt booklet, and a pencil case for
an AIgerion boy are among the service proiect
suggestions in the new, eighteen-page packet,
Days of Discovery, June-September. A Turkish
Candy Festival, Korean Day of Swings, Armeni-
an Grape Festival, Succoth, and a play about
the American legendary hero Johnny Appleseed
are additional features. Gomes include Korean
Poong Choose, American Flag Relay, Turkish
Coffee Cups, and Chinese Tiger Trap. In oddi-
tion, there are recipes and songs from around
the world which help children become acquaint-
ed with new ways of cooking and singing.

Journeys to still other lands may be taken
during vacation days, as leaders and children
explore another packet. Friendly Things To Do,
June-September. In this packet (a companion
to the above) are directions for making a happy
octopus, a "first fruits basket," and a playtime
bag for a migrant boy or girl. Holidays range
from Baalbek in Lebanon to the Brother and
Sister Festival in India. Songs, games, riddles,
and recipes reflect age-old cust0ms in Israel,
Lebanon, and Puerto Rico. The concluding cere-
mony, "We Worship with Other Children,"
which incorporates parallel portions from the
Koran and the Bible, may be used when serv-
ice proiects are completed.

Parents, camp leaders, teachers, and other

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

RATES: Words in regular type $.15 each
Words in boldface type $.25 each
RATES: Minimum ad accepted  $3.00

DEADLINES: Copy must be received by
the fifth of the month preceding date or
the issue in which ad is desired.

COPY: Type—or clearly print—your message and the address to which you wish
replies sent. Underline any words you want to appear in boldface type.

Send copy with remittance to:
RECREATION Classified Advertising, 8 West 8th Street, New York, New York 10011.

HELP WANTED

Recreation Division
Chief wanted by the City
of Danville, Virginia. Popu-
lation, 48,000. Salary range:
35616-37056; appointment
may be made above the
first step. Degree in recre-
ation, physical education,
or related field with at least
two years of professional
recreation experience. Un-
der the director of parks
and recreation, the employe
is responsible for planning
and implementation of the
city-wide recreation pro-
gram. Apply to Department
of Parks and Recreation,
P.O. Box 1255, Danville,
Virginia.

State Park Superinten-
dent. $6,000-$6,500 PLUS
housing and all utilities. To
develop and administer a
new ocean beach facility,
with supervisory responsi-
bilities for other state parks
within the county. A chal—
lenging osition in the Mid-
dle At antic state area.
Previous experience in park
supervision required. Apply
to Box D564, RECREATION
Magazine.

Therapists for California
State Hospitals. Opportu-
nities to plan and conduct
individual patient recrea-
tion as well as special
group activities; modern
equipment and facilities.

Positions open to college
graduates with major in
recreation or recreation
therapy including super-
vised field work. Salary
range: 3486 to $590 a
month. Promotional oppor-
tunities, attractive employee
benefits. Write: Medical
Personnel Services. Cali-
fornia State Personnel
Board, 801 Capitol Mall,
Sacramento, California

95814.

POSITION WANTED

Physical Educator gradu-
ating this May would like
full-time recreational work.
Either a private or city po-

sition. References. Write
Box 181, La Crosse, Kansas.

The publisher usumee no maintain for services or items advertised here.

252

 

group workers with children will find in these
two pockets a weolth of program materials
which will help to answer children's summer-
time wail, "What can I do now?" Either or
both packets, priced at 25¢ each, may be or-
dered from Children's Program, American
Friends Service Committee, 160 North 15th
Street, Philadelphia 19102.

Growth of any profession brings new concepts
and practices. Therefore, park and recreation
administrators were asked their opinions as to
desirable training ond qualities of recruits to
the profession. The result of the survey is re-
vealed in A Survey on Recruitment and Curricu-
lums for Parks and Recreation by Walter L.
Cook and Rhodell E. Owens. The twenty-one-
page pamphlet (plus numerous tables) is avail-
able for $2.00 from the American Institute of
Park Executives, Oglebay Park, Wheeling, West
Virginia ($1.00 to AlPE members).

What's scriptography? It's a swingy style of
communications that combines words and graph-
ics into images that can be understood at a
glance. Friendly figures add human interest.
Result: the message get attention, gets read,
gets understood, and gets rememberedl The
Charming L. Bete Company (Springfield, Mas-
sachusetts 01301) has put out a series of
scriptographic booklets that are not only valu-
able as program aids but also as idea booklets
for snapping up your own manuals and visual
presentations. The booklets cost $.25 each and
include such titles as The ABC's of Water Safety,
About Boating Safety, The ABC’s of Public Re-
lations, How to Prepare an Easel Presentation,
et cetera. Write for the 1964 catalog of scripto-

graphic booklets.
o

The citizen diplomat. A growing number of
American students are enrolled in overseas in-
stitutions and U.S. Assistant Secretary of State of
Educational Affairs Lucius D. Battle hos identified
these "citizen diplomats" as a most important
factor in today's internationally conscious world.
The 1964 edition of the student travel handbook
Work, Study, Travel Abroad explores scholar-
ships, fellowships, seminars, and study-travel
programs. It lists the advantages and disad-
vantages of each and lets the reader decide for
himself which best suits his needs. Available for
$1.00 from the U.S. National Student Associa-
tion, Department W-1, 265 Madison Avenue,

New York 10016.
e

The phenomenal growth of camping over the
years has created a strain on available facilities.
Therefore, park and recreation administrators
will welcome a thirty-two-page pamphlet on

Guidelines for Campground Development by
Charles C. Rombold. Available for $2.00 from
the American Institute of Park Executives, Ogle-
bay Park, Wheeling, West Virginia ($1.00 to

AlPE members).
I

Come the Year 2000, current trends indicate
there will be 63,000,000 anglers devoting
1,300,000,000 days to recreational fishing.
How can this demand be met? The Sport Fishing
Institute answers this and other questions in
Fish Conservation Highlights 1960-1962, which
is based on replies by state and provincial fish
and game agencies to a series of questionnaires
sent to them at the close of 1962. The eighty-
four-page report is available for $1.00 from
the SFI at 413 Bond Building, Washington D.C.

20005.

RECREATION

PEOPLE

IN THE RECREATION

NEWS

Norborne Berk-
eley, Jr., of New
Canaan, Connecti-
cut, a vice-presi-
dent of Chemical
Bank New York
Trust Company,
New York City,
has been elected treasurer of the Na-
tional Recreation Association. In his
capacity as treasurer and member of
the NRA Board of Trustees, Mr. Berke-
ley will share in formulating the poli-
cies and guiding the expanding work
of the association. Mr. Berkeley re-
ceived his BA from Yale University in
1947 and LLB from the University of
Virginia in 1949.

 

Four nationally accredited assistant di-
rectors now head the Seattle Park De-
partment’s recreation divisions. The
four, whose recruitment was authorized
in 1963 by the City Council and Seattle
Park Board, qualified for appointments
to the new positions by written and oral
examinations under supervision of St.
Louis and Seattle civil service personnel
examiners. Willard H. Shunlard is
director of the Seattle department.
Head of the new cultural arts section
of the department is Mrs. Frances
Parrish, former executive assistant to
the Louisville, Kentucky, director of
parks and recreation. Pearl Powell,
former citywide supervisor of the Seat-
tle department, is now assistant director
of camping, citywide activities, and staff
assignments. Gerard A. Friesen, who
was general supervisor and coordinator
of playgrounds in Austin, Texas, is now
assistant director of Seattle park rec-
reation centers and playgrounds. New
assistant director of sports and aquatics
is Watson B. Hovis, former assistant
superintendent of the Tualatin Hills Dis-
trict, Beaverton, Oregon, Park and Rec-
reation Department. All full-time park
department recreation-division em-
ployes in Seattle are under civil service,
thereby providing them with the same

MAY, 1964

job stability and fringe benefits ac-
corded other city and county employes.

Fred J. Weiler,
director for the
US. Bureau of
Land Management
in Arizona, was re-
cently presented
with a twenty-year
service award. Mr.
Weiler, a career civil servant, has been
with the US. Department of the Interior

since 1943 and has been Arizona BLM
state director since 1961. He is in charge
of BLM’s public land program covering
nearly thirteen million acres of federal
land under BLM administration in Ari-
zona. ( See Mr. Weiler’s article “More

Recreation on Less Land,” RECREATION,
January 1963.)

 

Nick J. Catamas, recreation chief at
the Veterans Administration Hospital
in San Fernando, California, received
a Citation Award at the 16th Annual
California Park and Recreation Society
meeting in Anaheim. Mr. Catamas has
played a leading role in medical recrea-
tion since 1947 and has been closely
identified with the total recreation
movement in California during the past
ten years as a speaker, consultant, and

lecturer, holding offices and heading
committees.

 

IN MEMORIAM

“

0 WILLIAM G. KEATING, recreation

superintendent in Rome, New York,
for twenty-one years before his retire-
ment in 1962, died in March at the age
of sixty-nine. He had been prominent
in the field of sports for fifty years as
a three-star athlete, coach, physical
education director, and official. His son,
William Keating, Jr., is director of rec-
reation in Oneida, New York.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

IT’S SENSATIONAL!

PRECISION-
PAK

THE NEW _
and BETTER ‘ v

ARCHERY TARGET

Personally Tested and
Endorsed by HOWARD HILL

«9=====—=—==>

FUR SCHOOLS, CAMPS, CLUBS,
COLLEGES, PARK DISTRICTS

Those in the know are switching to PRE-
CISION-PAK. This new, revolutionary, square
archery target gives you 27% more shoot-
ing area, and is less expensive than any
comparable round target. Proved In tough
national tournaments. Made of highly com-
pressed “Curlex” wood fibres, it is self-
healing. Square shape is easy to stack,
stand up, carry, store, or ship. Available in
seven standard sizes. Special size targets
for automatic archery lanes, or indoor
ranges, available. Also specially designed
wire stands and carts for all sizes.

NATION-WIDE DISTRIBUTION from 30 dif-
ferent locations throughout the U.'S. For
complete information and prices write:

Western Aspen Division, American Excelsior
Corp. 900 Avenue H. East, Arlington, Texas

Western Wood Division, American Excelsior
Corp. 8320 Cranford Street, Pico Rivera,
California

American Excelsior Corporation, 1000 N.
Halsted Street, Chicago, Illinois 60622

 

253

NEW PUBLICATIONS .

 

.

Creative Aging, Edward L. Bortz,
M.D. Macmillan Company, 60 Fifth
Avenue, New York 10011. Pp. 179.
$4.95.

UNQUESTIONABLY our “age image”
must change. Older adults of today
are different from those in our grand-
mother’s day or in the day of Mr.
Whistler’s “mother.” { See editorial by
Margaret Mead, “Aging Differently in
the Space Age,” Page 219.) As Dr.
Bortz, a well-known geriatrist, says,
“The widespread image of the aged man
and woman as an object of commisera-
tion, tolerance, and pity is one of the
great cultural misfortunes of society . . .
there needs to be an expansion of our
imagination in terms of human dura-
bility.”

He writes with'sensitive understand-
ing of theways in which‘older people
can offer “the special contributions
which only experience and the patience
and wisdom gained by long living can
make.” Unfortunately, American socie-

ty is too often unaware an'd wasteful of.

the vast resources of its elderly mem-
bers. The author’s handling of the sub-
ject in Creative Aging helps the reader
see that old age need not be a period of
decline and depression but, on the con-
trary, “the survival period” of life.

“If the positive values of growing
with the years are emphasized, if there
is creative imagination and intellectual
daring to construct a new kind of socie-
ty in which men and women will have
a new appreciation of the joys that come
from living a long and mature existence,
there will be a lessening of the sorrows
that afflict humanity, a vigorous vitality
never known before, and a hopefulness
and understanding that will make men
akin to gods. "

“For, in truth, man is really just a
little lower than the angels, and he can
attain this desirable state only through
his own planning and attention to what
is to come.” This book should be re-
quired reading for all those preparing
for retirement or for those leaders of
groups of retired citizens—DD.

101 Ways to Enioy Your Leisure.
Harper and Row, 49 East 33rd Street,
New York 10016. Pp. 128. Paper,
$3.00 (hard-cover $4.50).

This moderately priced, easily avail-
able publication. prepared by the RC-
tirr'mrnt Council of Stamford, Connec-
tir'ut. makes an excellent companion
piece in Crr'atit't? Aging by Dr. Bortz,

254

for it goes into suggested interests,
activities and services, and how to use
them to enrich one’s retirement years.
The Council points out that the retired
worker must seek new values for his
life off-the-job, and quotes Mortimer
Adler who asks, “How is leisure, as an
activity, as an occupation, distinct from
work and play? The answer to the ques-
tion lies in leisure, conceived as those
activities which are worth doing for the
intrinsic rewards they yield, as com-
pared with work which in essence one
does for an extrinsic reward . . . Leisure
work is the work we must do in order
to live well. Obviously, just subsisting
is not enough for a good human life.

“Retirement should be a transition
from toil to leisure. It should be a tran-
sition from devoting part of one’s time
to earning a living to devoting all of it
to living well.”

The book would be an excellent one
to be discussed or put into the hands
of pre-retirement club groups, special-
interest groups, or anyone in search of
retirement ideas. It covers travel, trail-
ering, gardening, history, giving serv-
ice to others, and so on—--with specific
suggestions in every case. “Work With
your Hands” gets a whole section to
itself. Many older people say they never
really knew how creative they were
until after retirement.

Opening the Door to Creative Ex-
perience for the Aging Through an Art
Program, Selma Gross. Baltimore City
Commission on Programs of the Aging,

Mayor’s Office, Baltimore 2, Maryland.
Pp. 60, illustrated. Spiralbound, $1.00.

This manual was submitted original-
ly as a master’s dissertation to the
Maryland Institute of Art. Mrs. Gross,
supervisor of senior citizens for the
Baltimore Bureau of Recreation, is an
artist who has had a number of exhibits
of her paintings. She has prepared it
as a guideline and inspiration for those
leaders who are not satisfied with the
cup-of-tea, greeting-card-to-the-ill, sim-
ple drop-in program of many golden-
age clubs and centers. It is her belief
that creativity knows no age limits; it
is an outlet that can be stimulated and
encouraged by certain techniques of
leadership.

The attractive and thought-provoking
manual is illustrated by large photo-
graphs of action shots and also of crea-
tive work done by older adults in Mrs.
Cross’s experimental group. This pub-

lication is new evidence of the growing
concern of the recreation profession
that programs ‘can and should be mean-
ingful and creative. (See Mrs. Cross’
article “Creative Magic for the Senior

Citizen,” Page 234.)

A Parent's Guide to Children’s Play
and Recreation, Alvin Schwartz. Col-
lier Books, 111 Park Avenue South,
New York 10003. Pp. 191. Paper,
$.95.

Back in 1961-62, the author used to
drop into NRA headquarters, use the
NRA library, and talk with us about
children at play. His sense of humor,
wit, and genuine enthusiasm made such
talks most enjoyable. The same quality
of understatement and quiet humor runs
through this delightful book. We can-
not resist a few examples. In discussing
music and the types of instruments chil-
dren may like to explore, Mr. Schwartz
observes, “While small boys have been
known to play the tuba and play it well,
fewer have been as successful in lugging
it around.” On cooking, he comments,
“Anybody who can manage the trip to
the tOp of the kitchen stool and thereby
reach the kitchen counter is eligible to
cook at our house.” On turtles as pets,
“Although not known for their convivi-
ality . . .”; on dogs, “It’s an immutable
rule that large dogs have large appe-
tites”; on traveling, “Our approach to
traveling with children is to do as much
as we reasonably can to assure a good
time and then to proceed with fingers
firmly crossed”; on sand, soil and wa-
ter as play materials, “Being as messy
as possible may be hard on the clothes
and even require a bath, but it also un-
chains the soul.”

Mr. Schwartz says firmly in his in-
troduction that he does not mean to tell
any parent how to raise a child. “If
you’re like most parents you already
are receiving more advice on this sub-
ject than you can use.” He also states
firme that this is not a collection of
cute and tricky ideas, it does not recom-
mend expensive toys, trips, et eetera.

If you have preschool or school-age
children, or know young parents who
do, treat yourself and them to a copy
of this book. And if you are in the rec-
reation profession, add it to your per-
sonal library, use it in your work, and
follow up its excellent listings of addi-
tional references-and resources. It is
affable, amiable, and accurate—and it
has an index to make it even more use-

ful.—V. M. '

RECREATION

 

.« i  n,
neglected the

mentally ill . . .,

this neglect

must end.” \
John F. Kennedy

February 5, 1963:

Let Us Carry On—
GIVE for MENTAL HEALTH

SSO .
Give to your 69*“ char,"
Mental Health 5 .n
Association for z 3
research, service 1;. ,3.
and education ‘I- HE“

 

AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA

HNDHAN IL©RE

0 CRAFTS ' KITS 0 LITERATURE
0 SUPPLIES ' COSTUMES 0 PRINTS

Authentic and 'eomplete for beginners
and experts. Shipped immediately.

Since 1927/Post: New York City
Museum: Monroe. N. Y.

PLUME TRADING CO.

 


it

1 Dept. 25D, Box 585, Monroe. N.Y.
Yours FREE, the finest catalog and
price list.

Nam
Address
City State

4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4

VWVVVVVV VVVVVVVVVVV‘VVVVV

MAY, 1964

V

4 YVVYVVYVVVVVVVVV'VYV

 

BOOKS & PAMPHLETS RECEIVED

 

CULINARY ARTS

Art of Rice Cookery, The, Dharam Jit Singh. How-

ord Moorepark, 440 E. 79th St., New York
10021. Pp. 143. $2.50.-

Betty Crocker's Coaky Book. Golden Press, 630
5th Ave., New York 10020. Pp. 156. $1.95.

Chop Suey, A La Corte, compiled by Chinese

Cooking Companions. Jopan Publ. Trading Co.,
Rutland, Vt. Pp. 58. Paper, $1.00.

Complete Tante Marie's French Kitchen, The,
Charlotte Turgeon. Oxford Univ. Press, 417 5th
Ave., New York 10016. Pp. 146. $6.50.

Delights of Apple Cookery, The, Lilo Perl. Coword-
McConn, 200 Madison Ave., New York 10016.
Pp. 179. $4.50.

Ideas for Building Borbeques. Sunset_Books,
Menlo Park, Colif. Pp. 72. Paper, $1.50.

Indonesian Cookery, Lie Sek-Hiong. Crown Publ.,

419 Park Ave. 5., New York 10016. Pp. 254.
$3.95.

Instant Epicure Cookbook, The, Lillian Langseth-
Christensen. Caword-McConn, 200 Madison
Ave., New York 10016. Pp. 302. $5.75.

Men Cooking, 474 Outstanding Men Cooks. Lone
Books, Menlo Park, Calif. Pp. 224. Paper, $1.50.

Modern Kitchens. Sunset Books, Menlo Park,
Colif. Pp. 112. Paper,$1.95.

1001 Dairy Dishes from the Sealtest Kitchens.

Sealtest Cook Book, P.O. Box 5023, St. Paul 4,
Minn. Pp. 288. $.25.

Outdoor Cook's Bible, The, Joseph D. Bates, Jr.

Doubleday, 575 Madison Ave., New York 10022.
Pp. 212. Paper, $1.95.

Sunset Cook Book of Desserts, The. Lone Book
Co., Menlo Park, Calif. Pp. 125. $3.75.

Sunset Cook Book of Breads, The. Lone Book Co.,
Menlo Park, Colif. Pp. 127. $3.75.

Yankee Hill-Country Cooking: Heirloom Recipes
from Rural Kitchens, Beatrice Voughon. Ste-

phen Greene Press, 120 Main St., Brottleboro,
Vt. Pp. 202. $3.95.

SCIENCE

Model Submarines for Beginners, H. H. Gilmore.

Harper and Row, 49 E. 33rd St., New York 16.
Pp. 122. $2.50.

1963 United States Aircraft, Missiles and Space-
craft, James J. Haggerty, Jr., Editor. Natl.
Aerospace Education Council, 1025 Connecticut

Ave., N.W. Washington 6, D. C. Pp. 168.
Paper, $2.00.

Outpost of Jupiter, Lester del Rey. Holt, Rine-

hort £1 Winston, 383 Madison Ave., New York
17. Pp. 191. $2.95.

Prove It, Rose Wyler and Gerald Ames. Harper 6

Raw, 49 E. 33rd St., New York 16. Pp. 64.
$1.95.*

Radio Amateur's Handbook, The (4151“ ed.,
1964). Amer. Radio Relay League, West Hort-
ford 7, Cann. Pp. 592. Paper, $3.50.

SPORTS, PHYSICAL EDUCATION, FITNESS

Brazil Book of Football, The, Stratton Smith,

Editor. Sportshelf, P.O. Box 634, New Rochelle,
N.Y. Pp. 127. $4.25.

Champion in Revolt (shot putting), Arthur Rowe.

Sportshelf, P.O. Box 634, New Rochelle, N.Y.
Pp. 160. $5.00. '

Coaching for Rowing, Geoffrey Page. Sportshelf,

PO. Box 634, New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 104.
$3.25.

Coaching for Rugby Football, Cedric Venobles.

Sportshelf PO. Box 634, New Rochelle, N.Y.
Pp. 79. sioo.

Coaching for Swimming, J. G. Garstong. Sport—

shelf, P.O. Box 634, New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 87.
$3.95.

Compact Book of Boating, The, Jacques Seville,

Editor. J. Lowell Pratt, 15 E. 48th St., New York
10017. Pp. 96. Paper, $.75.

Compact Book of Fresh Water Fishing, The, Bob
Zwirz, Editor. J. Lowell Pratt, 15 E. 48th St.,
New York 10017. Pp. 96. Paper, $.75.

Compact Book of Hunting, The, Jim Rikhoff,

Editor. J. Lowell Pratt, 15 E. 48th St., New York
10017. Pp. 93. Paper, $.75.

Competitive Swimming. Sportshelf, PO. Box 634,
New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 128. $3.75.

Complete Book of Winter Sports, The, Arthur
Liebers. Coward-McConn, 200 Madison Ave.,
New York. Pp. 228. $4.95. '

Design of Outdoor Physical Education Facilities
for Colleges and Schools, The, James B. Delo-
moter, Bureau of Publications, Teachers Col-
lege, Columbia Univ., New York 10027. Pp. 121.

Paper, $3.75.

* For younger readers.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

NEW! ALL-AMERICAN

FIELD MARKER

Saves Time
‘  and Money!

Assures
Bright, Even
Field Lines!

Versatile, pressure .
aperated, the American
Marker has 4-gallan
pressure tank with
“snap-aIT" top, side _
marking guide and WIII
handle any marking
iob quickly and easily,
using American can-.
centrated vinyl marking
paint.

 

 

 
   
  
 
 
   
        
   
 
       

School Price

$5950

Write for our 1.964
Catalog

ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT

AMERICAN ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT CO.

JEFFERSON, IOWA, U. S. A.

Here’s how to finance
recreational needs:

OBTAIN
ADDITIONAL FUNDS
-PROV|DE
MORE FUN!

Everybody loves popcorn. They’ll buy it on
sight. The income you derive Is ffound
money' to improve your programming.

Delicious Gold Medal Popcorn—or refresh-
ing Sno-Kones—sell fast wherever people
gather: near the pool...in picnic areas...
adjoining the baseball diamond . . .where
therapy’s taught...anywhere in park_or
parking lot. Even under the "Ice Skating
Today" sign in winter!

Your income? 8c profit on every 10c sale.

Add up these thousands of potential sales
per year. . .install Gold Medal equipment
...start expanding your recreation servuces
with the money you'll make!

Send for FREE catalog and helpful brochure—today!

% com MEDAL PRODUCTS co.

1859 Freeman Ave. - Cincinnati. Ohio. 45214,

 

255

 

 

4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 'easy"massacres. “aggress-
g campers, hikers, scientists, A Pp. 67: $.50. ' .
A mountaineers, explorers, ; Power Tennis, Neale Fraser. Sportshelf, P.0. Box
A hun’ers’  scou’s, A;  New  N.Y. Pp.  $4.50.
5 ' ° Pressure Basket all ock Ramsay. Prentice-Hall,
‘ Pg:{?;’|‘:; 13:33:? _ * Englewaad Cliffs,'N.J. Pp. 228. $5.65.
‘ - q p Primer of Figure Skating, Maribel Y. Vinson.
ment for all climates De
1, . - ' . .4. McGrow—Hill, 330 w. 42nd St., New York
4 srgners and manufacturers , - - 00 6 8
$ for "ft F  ‘g 1 3 . Pp. 1 1. Paper, $2.45.
uart'; yyeafs- amous fodr r.  Pro Football Handbook, Dave Anderson. J. Lowell
A q I .nserVIce, once an 4W, » A Pratt, 137 E. 57th St., New York 10022. Pp.
‘ I htw ht "m"
4‘ lg eig equrpment. g_/4 4‘ 183. $.50.
Send 10¢ for complete illustrated catalog. an:A Quartegbgcké v.2 .2. IiItAtle orLid l-tl‘oward Liss.
rgonou 00 s, as ve., orc mont, N.Y.
; ‘if.’!":.fl.’l'.?.JA£.'1..9%II£TLF5.‘ :   
. (plus. pm") Ready Reckoner of Team Standings (rev. ed.).
‘ ‘ Eportirggs FNewls272g1580 Washington Ave., St.
- Nam ows . p. . . .
.‘l 40 Real Babe Ruth, The (2nd ed.), Don Daniel.
‘ Address ‘ EDOF‘I'II‘1696 Blews322%138mWOshingtan Ave., St.
. - ouns . p. . . .
.‘l City_____ sun A Registrations! Carries amtf Spttalrtsi IAllop E. Mcggy,
4‘  * 4 4  4 $  4  ‘t ‘ IOI'. mEI'. 55°C. Or eat , YSICOI u-

 

QUALITY

0/2/06

FOLDING BANQUET TABLES

Churches, schools, clubs, lodges—your organ-
 ization, too, can order modern Monroe Folding
 Tables at our direct-trom-factory, money-

Foldlng and 
Stacking Chairs

    

Send For

  

   

 E saving prices! Complete stock of models,
styles and sizes. Attractive savings on chairs,
DIRECT PRICE storage trucks, partitions, risers, etc. Send

    
     
 

CATALOG today for FREE 40-page catalog!

  

Round and
Square Tables

  
 
   
 
 

        

Table an Chair
34.2243? Trucks

THE MONROE CO. 77 CHURCH $1., COLFAX, rows

Risers, Platterms and Stages Room mats-H

Q

 

 

AMust...

for Catholic parents and all youth workers who are looking for

CATHOLIC CAMPS

THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC CAMPING ASSOCIATION

announces the publication of its

1964 DIRECTORY OF CATHOLIC CAMPS

Here is information vital to all those seeking a summer camp for their young-
sters. Our new directory contains complete, accurate, and up-to-date informa-
tion on all active Catholic camps in Americawnearly 450 in all.

This year plan to send your child to a Catholic camp—where God is foremost.
Catholic camps are among the finest and most modern in the country.

The National Catholic Camping Association is an activity of the Youth De-
partment, National Catholic Welfare Conference. Membership is open to any-
one interested in camping. Members receive the annual Directory of Catholic
Camps and Trail Signs, the oflicial monthly newsletter of Catholic camping.

MONSIimon FREDERICK J. STEVENSON
National Director

for your directory send $1.00 to

NATIONAL CATHOLIC CAMPING ASSOCIATION

1312 Massachusetts Ave., N.W. Washington 5, D. C.

 

i. “"1 - - ' -
In“ urrltlrlfr In An!- nrlunriecnrn “Inn-a “\AHOInn nonnvtfl‘tnv

 
   
 
  
   
  

cotian Er Recreation, 1201 16th St., N.W.,
Washington, D.C. 20036. Pp. 76. Paper, $1.00.

Rugger for Schoolboys, Danald Ireland. Sportshelf,
P.0. Box 634, New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 132.

$4.25.

Safety Checks for Skin and Scuba Diving. Chon-
ning L. Bete Co., Greenfield, Moss. Pp. 14. $.25.

Salute the Skier, Walter Pause. Taplinger Publ.,
119 W. 57th St., New York 10019. Pp. 211.

$12.00.

Secrets of Chinese Karate, Ed Parker. Prentice-
Holl, Englewood Cliffs, NJ. Pp. 239. $5.95.

7 Years in Little League Baseball, Robert B.
Starling. Reel {'7 Starling Publ., P.O. Box 322,
Greenville, N.C. Pp. 118. $3.60.

Show Jumping. Spartshelf, P. O. Box 634, New
Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 41. Paper, $1.25.

Skin Diving, Peter Bird. Sportshelf, P.O. Box 634,
New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 92. $1.50.

Skin Diving, Simon Dresner. Rand McNally, 8255
Central Park Ave., Skokie, III. Pp. 95. $2.95.

Soccer, Jimmy Greaves. Sportshelf, P.0. Box 634,.
New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 112. $4.00.

Soccer Annual, 1963-1964, Bill Graham, Editor.
Sportshelf, P.O. Box 634, New Rochelle, N.Y.

Pp. 144. Paper, $1.25.

Soccer for Schoolboys, Johny Haynes. Sportshelf,
P.O. Box 634, New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 110.

$4.25.

Sports—Mirror of American Life, Robert H.
Boyle. Little, Brown, 34 Beacon St., Boston 6.

Pp. 293. $6.00.

Sports and Pastimes Through the Ages, Peter
Moss. Arco Publ., 480 Lexington Ave., New

York 10017. Pp. 222. $4.95.

Start Lawn Tennis with Dan Maskell. Sportshelf,
P.O. Box 634, New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 64.

Paper, $2.00.

Swimming and Diving I4th ed.), David A. Arm-
bruster, Robert H. Allen and Hobert Sherwood
Billingsley. C. V. Masby, 3207 Washington
Blvd., St. Louis 3. Pp. 352. $6.50.

Swimming for Schoolboys, F. L. Briscoe. Sportshelf,
P.O. Box 634, New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 128.

$4.25.

Swimming to Win, N. W. Sorsfield, A. D. Kinneor
and J. A. Holmyord. Sportshelf, P.O. Box 634,
New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 32. Paper, $1.00.

Table Tennis, Si Wasserman. Sterling Publ., 419
4th Park Ave. 5., New York 10016. Pp. 80.

$1.95.

Technique of Competitive Swimming, The, Bela
Roiki. Sportshelf, PO. Box 634, New Rochelle,
N.Y. Pp. 112. $5.75.

Tenpin Bowling, Fred Brundle. Sportshelf, P.O.
Box 634, New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 95. $1.50.

Theory and Practice of Olympic Lifting, Al Mur-
ray. Sportshelf, P.O. Box 634, New Rochelle,

N.Y. Pp. 52. Paper, $2.00.

Theory in Physical Education, Camille Brown and
Rosaline Cossidy. Lea 6' Febiger, 600 S. Wash-
ington Sq., Philadelphia 6. Pp. 244. $6.00.

Therapeutic Exercise (2nd ed.). Hans Krous,
M.D. Charles C. Thomas, 301—327 E. Lawrence
Ave., Springfield, Ill. Pp. 249. $7.50.

To Read and To Tell, Noroh Montgomerie. Arca
Publ., 480 Lexington Ave., New York 10017.
Pp. 270. $4.50.

Weight Training for Users of Spur Barbells, Al
Murroy. Sportshelf, P.0. Box 634, New Rochelle,
N.Y. Pp. 44. Paper, $1.75.

 

MAGAZINE ARTICLES

 

NATION'S CITIESS‘ January-February 1964
Combined issue on Community Development.

NEA Journal, April 1964
Classroom As Big As All outdoors, Ann Brinly.

PARENTS', April 1964
What's Behind Those Teen-Age Masks?
Morris Sklonsky, MD. and Edith G. Neisser.
Take a Lesson from the Dinosaur,

Brock Chisholm, M.D.

SAFETY EDUCATION, April 1964
The Last Prom, T. A. Blond.
12 Water Emergencies, Joyce Di Cicco.

SPORTS ILLUSTRATED, March 30, 1964
Spring on a Florida River lWeeki Wochee),

Shelly and Mary Louise Grossmon.
A Dreamy New Era for Fish, Robert H. Boyle.

TODAY'S HEALTH, April 1964
How to Make Yourself Fall-Safe, Hol Higden.

YWCA Magazine, April 1964
The Challenge of Work and Leisure, Poul Haun.

*Published monthly at 1612 K Street, N. W.,
Washington, D.C. 20006. $6.00 annually, $.75

a copy.

RECREATION

POWERFUL PATENTED PLUNGER CLEARS

(LOGGED TOILETS

in a jiffy!

0 Designed to flex at any angle

Ordinary plungers don’t seat ~

properly. They permit com-
pressed air and water to splash
back. Thus you not only have
a mess, but you lose the very
pressure you need to clear the
obstruction.

With “TOILAFLEX”, ex-
pressly designed for toilets, no
air or water can escape. The
full pressure plows through the
clogging mass and swishes it
down. Can’t miss!

Get a "TOILAFLEX" for your home too.

0 suction.rim stops splash_hack Posrrrve Insurance agamsf stuffed Iorlet.

0 Centers itself, can’t skid around

- Tapered tail gives air-tight frt

$265

Higher in Canada

AVAILABLE AT YOUR HARDWARE SUPPLIER

 

\ p '5
a
‘s r' O

\x’ any time

the TUCK-AWAV table
is ready in seconds!

 

Now, any room becomes a recreation area quickly,
easily . . . with the "FUCK-AWAY folding tennis
table. The "FUCK-AWAY is built for lasting ser-
vice, minimum storage requirements, and speedy,
safe operation. Finished in fiat green with white
court lines, the TUCK—AWAY is regulation size
and features “Floating Fold” for easy, positive
action. So safe a child can operate it. USTTA
approved for tournament play.

new FR E E booklet

’
a!”
f

’a . . . tells the complete story on
a’ the TU CK-AWAY. Write for
your copy today!

I”
s I,
'5 I
  a
\"

-‘__————————--
In

I

0-.

\

manufacturing company. Inc. Dept. 406
5217 EDEN AVENUE SOUTH, MINNEAPOLIS 24, MINNESOTA

t. . ,. ,.
 -   .t ' _  G e
\ .4:   - I
\ L  2:: -.~  tr  . a.
I x ’
x “h R ‘ 4b
x ’ P ‘ ‘ I I

a.

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

How Lew Huckeba lost a hobby and
gained a motor repair...shop

Coaxing balky power mowers and outboard
motors to start up at the first tug is a labor
of love for MW Huckeba.

He made it a hobby for years. Then about
a year ago, an excellent opportunity to make
it a prolitable sideline came along.

Lew took the opportunity. Bought a lot,
built a building, stocked it with tools and
parts and set up in business.

The money came from

U. S. Savings Bonds he’s 1 a} ' ' “@399”?

 

Jesmret.+._r.e_er~'e:. -_mm germ—2h tame? '
 wglsumuguseswim '6' ’ ' '«'E
I

put it toward the purchase of a U. S. Savings
Bond. MW never sees the money he’s savmg,
so he hardly misses it.

Millions of Americans use the Payroll
Savings Plan to save money regularly.
Their dollars build up a nest egg for their
future and help our country at the same
time.

How about the things
you’d like to be saving for?

 

 

, h Just ask your employer to
been collecting for years on L "I  - set aside $37.50 a month for
Payroll Savings where he ' " £5: ' you,on Payroll SaV1ngs and
works. Each payday Lew’s ': x-;;;-"-1~Fg  t  )5 you 11 have $2,428 in Sav-

 

employers set aside a small .3 ‘-,;,:-"§ 7. r; ‘z‘s;.;v:!i:7_-___—rngg' sag-ma 5:25

amount from his check and

ings Bonds in five years. It’s
not only easy . . . it works.

Quick facts about Series E Savings Bonds
0 You get 331333 more money at

maturity

0 You can get your money when

on need it

0 our Bonds are replaced free if
lost, (it stroyul or stolen

0 You can buy Bonds on the Pay-
roll Suvings Plan

Help yourself as you help your country

BUY U.S. SAVINGS BONDS

This advertising is donated by The Advertising Council and this magazine.

 

