CREATION

uTlONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION 0 NOVEMBER 1964 ° 600

 

THE HIGH-COST oF CARELESSNESST

TAKE A CLOSE LOOK AT YOUR FORESTS. What you see is the raw material of one of America's life-giving industries
Forest products and their derivatives provide income and jobs for millions of pe0ple throughout the United States.
I Yet, last year, over seven million acres of precious forest and range lands went up in flame. I Nine out of
ten forest fires are started by people . . . people who are careless. The loss is shared by all of us. I What can
you do about it? Urge your employees and the people in the communities in which you do business to be careful
with fire—every kind of fire—and to remember the basic rules: Always hold matches till cold! Be sure

you drown all fires out! Crush all smokes dead! Remember whoever you are, whatever you do . . .
America’s forests are important to you.

Material for posting on your bulletin board availab'e
from CFFP-FOREST SERVICE DIVISION. u.s. DEPT. OF

AGRICULTURE. WASHINGTON. o.c. 20252.   I {.33   can prevent forest fires
— x";

Published as a public service in cooperation with The Advertising Council

 

i

Sell securityt’. . at a profit!

._  ” com-Lan

‘f f 0 l. Self-Service Lockers
""
“‘D A C T I 0  Whether or not you

charge for Coin-Lok

 

self-service
Do you want to know more about acquiring land for parks checking, your
and recreation use, securing financial assistance, planning for profits are still

 
 
   

the most eHicient use of land, cooperating with other public
and private agencies, and what other agencies have learned
and accomplished? Get 326 pages of information. Order

substantial. You save
on attendant salaries,
lost article claims,

 

 

County Parks and Recreation . . . overtime costs and
:1 Basis for Action employer-employee
h aches!
Published jointly by the Aiad uestions?
National Association of Counties Research Foundation y q '
Drop us a
and the .
National Recreation Association “ne' address
below.
Available for
$3.50
*T.M. — American locker Company, Inc. _
NATIoNAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION w
8West 8th Street New York, N. Y. 10011 COIN-Lo K* SYSTEMS, INC.
(10% discount to NRA Affiliates and Associates) Dept. 511, Jones 8. Gifford Avenue,  COIN 
Jamestown, New York, no. Box 1000 I. O K

  
 
 
 
  

N 7 Let every child’s imagination soar;

.' They,“ guard this Frontier 1  but keep their adventures sure-
:" Outpost with 2 guns and 2 -'  footed. That‘s a basic Fantasy con-
' cept . . . it‘s executed with traditional

telescopes, safely protected ._ _
3amison® craftsmanship in steel.

bemud Steel and TUStiC. i  The uncommon design and rugged
[t  timber. Changing ofthe guards 1 durabiiity of Fantasy assures the
  _ , _ _  most in la ossibilities ear after
 lS Simple and qurck.Cl1mb p y p y
,3, a, year on your piayground.
. if: upthe middle,slide down
“év

Playground Eqnipment O

  

either side. f2] t S 

 

 \ BY
‘    .,  .     .......     A   . .. ....... _.   .. . 
. y  space to your playground —_- make It a community iandmark — With .
1 lgjlrari‘igasxplaygroundequipment . . . featuring nautical, pioneer. space and .
‘ f;  steryghekithemes; For catalog Write: Jamison Manufacturing Company, 518

T % :zManchester Avenue, Los Angeles, Caiifornia 90003. ' e '
,  '   . g .  I _EQUlPMENT FOR FUN AND Fitness SINCE 1925 Distributors;-
, " a." =-"' t:   ,_   _ '  . in many t:il:ies.eE

< - I  - '3mukkw-iW‘MWRRWff-E°MWtW3$-w-~N¢‘o::fnlA-+-x€mmm-‘l'apm-Jiimm-‘ggwuh..cthrmxgv-cklkwmwy&'-\<)M~L1¢'d'W%3®MkLo:hm:.x33$...‘,,3u-  Mt..enhancnmm."taxman-J..u....,.,._i..t.s,t...m____ we remnant We.» til/viva.:.,_.._~£,.-,,.,—‘A.‘W<-1hz:\¢g4-

NOVEMBER, 1964* When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 429

 

RECREATION

 

 

 

NOVEMBER l964 VOL. lVII NO. 9 PRICE 60c
THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

GENERAL

NEW CPRS-NRA Agreement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 435
A state society and national organization combine services

Shh . . . (Editorial) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Barbara Chapin 437
The need for do-nothing quietude . . .

Cultural Growth in Capital Letters . . . . . . . . . Joseph Prendergast 440

How MAD can you get?
. Robert M. Artz 442

Building a Park and Recreation Department . .
A step-by-step account of steady growth

Platform for Conservation and Outdoor Recreation

Laurance Rockefeller 446

New legislation and concerted egort will open new era

Land and Water Conservation Fund . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 449
Provisons of new law for state and local governments

PROGRAM

OPERA IS RECREATION (Bonus to subscribers) . . . . . . . . . . 451
Fifth in the NRA series on The Performing Arts in Recreation

 

ADMINISTRATION

Leaders of Leisure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Earl Kauffman 463
Can we meet the needs of a dynamic and rapidly evolving society?

 

The Problem of Priorities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Linn R. Rockwood 465

Scheduling groups wanting to use public recreation facilities

How We Fail in Recruitment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Louis F. Twardzik 468
Today’s high-school student is a sophisticated career shopper

 

 

DIGEST

The Oak Park Ice Rink . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Webbs Norman 472
How attendance and income can be increased and costs decreased

DEPARTMENTS

Letters 431 As We Go To Press 433 Editorially Speaking 439

State and Local Developments 470 Arts and Crafts Corner 474
Rx for the Ill and Handicapped 475 People in the Recreation News 476

Reporter’s Notebook 477 Market News 478 Resource Guide 479
Concerning Upkeep 481 New Publications 482

 

RECREATION ls published monthi except July and August by the National Recreation Association.
a service or anizat‘lon supported y voluntary contributions, at 8 West 8th Street. New York. New
York 10011. s on file In public libraries and 8 Indexed in the Readers' Guide. Subscription $5.00 a
year. Canadian and foreign subscription rate $5.75. Re-entered as second-class matter Aprll 25.
1950. at the Post Office In New York. New York. under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing
at special rate of postage provided for in Section 1103. Act of October 3. 1917. authorized May 1.
£933. allegiiaiiims of current Issues available from University Mlcrofllms. 313 N. First Street. Ann
r r. c gan.

  
 
 
 

  

DU CAT 1 ONAL The articles herein printed are
R E 5 5 the expression of the writers and
5 5 0 c l AT I ON not a statement of policy of the

OF
A" ER l CA National Recreation Association.

  
  
 

Copyright. 1964 by the

National Recreation Association. :7. ".
Incorporated -, -

Printed In the U.S.A.

  

430

Editor in Chief
JOSEPH PRENDERGAST

Editor
DOROTHY DONALDSON

Assistant Editor
ELVIRA DELANY

Associate Editor for Program
VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

Business Manager
FRANK ROWE

Advertising Manager
ESTA GLUCK

 

On the Cover

The breaking waves dashed
high

On a stern and rock-bound
coast,

And the woods, against a
stormy sky,

Their giant branches tossed.

Felicia Dorothea H emans

(1793-1835)

Only small remnants remain of the
vast wilderness that greeted the Pil-
grim fathers. This year at Thanks-
giving we can give thanks, among
our other blessings, for a new na-
tional park (Canyonlands), a new
national seashore (Fire Island),
and the passage of federal conser-
vation legislation (see Pages 446-
450). This scene of Point Lobas
near Monterey, California, was
taken by David McArthur of Ven-
tura, California, and was an award
winner in the 1961 Kodak High
School Photo Awards. David called

it “Raging Beauty.”
Next Month

One of the biggest hits in Holly-
wood, Florida, has been the annual
Poetry Night, presented as part of
the recreation department’s Seven
Lively Arts Festival. Our December
issue will show how you, too, can
make “Poetry, A Lively Art, In-
deed!” In addition, we will exam-
ine new youth programs launched
by the Air Force; a travel program
for insurance company employes,
which really orients them for vaca-
tion time; a new community center
in Branford, Connecticut, built
“Penny-by-Penny”; and a “Bike
Pike” donated to Alverthorpe Park
in Abington, Pennsylvania. Last-
minute ideas for Christmas will in-
clude crafts and the construction of
snow sculptures.

Photo Credits

Page 440, Housing Authority of
Portland, Oregon; 442, (top) Reg-
ister-Guard Photo by Joe Mathe-
son, (bottom) Tom Burns, Jr., Eu-
gene, Oregon.

RECREATION

LETTERS

 

Playground Election

Sirs:

Playground programs often tend to
become stagnant, stuffy, and trite so
that youngsters’ interests soon waver.
How to stimulate the program, how to
inject surprise, how to inject learning
and enjoyable situations, how to sustain
the interests of youngsters—these are
all important questions!

We have sixteen playgrounds in
J anesville, Wisconsin, a city of just
under fifty thousand. This year of 1964,
we decided to use the national political
conventions as a teaching device. And,
so, in the week-long school for the forty-
nine member playground staif, instruc-
tions were given that the “J anesville
Political Party” would have a conven-
tion in a central park shelter house late
in July. The timing was deliberate so
that lessons from the convention in the
Cow Palace could be learned.

Each playground was considered a
state and entitled to the number of dele-
gates proportionately with other play-
grounds with the registration on the
playgrounds as of July 7, 1964. We set
the total number of delegates to coin-
cide with the seating capacity in the
shelter house.

The primary election was held on
each playground on Tuesday, July 14.
The polls were Open all day on each
grounds and only registered playground
people could vote for delegates to the
convention. Delegates could run on a
ticket of support for a presidential can-
didate, or not, as he wished.

All delegates elected were assembled
at the shelter house the next Friday.
Ground rules were established and au-
thentic convention procedures were ex-
plained. Campaigning on all grounds
started the next Monday. Only national
candidates of stature, such as Johnson,
Goldwater, Nixon, Scranton, and Rock-
efeller, were recognized. The convention
was held the next Thursday. The hall
was jammed—improvised bands, por-
traits of candidates, “state” signs, and
slogans were all present in great array.

The convention was run according to
established procedures with two excep-
tions: (1) a leading regional Democrat
and a leading Republican were given
five minutes each to tell in very simple
terms what the party stood for and (2)
after this, the names of two parties were
not mentioned. The party in convention
was “The Janesville Political Party”.
The platform was presented and adopt-
ed, the candidates were nominated and
seconded, the voting by states con-

NOVEMBER, 1964

ducted. The entire convention took

slightly over two hours.

Demonstrations were limited to five
minutes and, I’m sure, no convention
ever had any more noise than was evi-
dent during these demonstrations. At
the end, the “committee on notilication”
presented the nominated candidate and
he presented his acceptance speech. This
young man was prepared to emulate any
of the candidates in his acceptance.

The lessons learned were many and
several social-science teachers com-
mented that this sort of thing was more
vital than hours “on the books.” Ram-
ifications and alternatives of such a
program are numerous.

Next year, we plan to use a city coun-
cil election as our subject.

PAT DAWSON, Recreation Director,

Janesville, Wisconsin.

0 For more on Janesville's playground
program see “Making History on the
Playground," Recreation, April, 1964.
If you have had any youth forums or
debates on your playgrounds or in your
centers, let us hear about it! Also tell
us if you offer great book discussions
or forums for adults or any programs

that stimulate your community to speak
up and be heard.—Ed.

A Modern Must

Sirs:

Why recreation? Why public recre-
ation? Why recreation as a taxpayer’s
responsibility?

Why recreation? Answer: Because
man cannot live by bread alone. Recre-
ation nourishes his equally essential
needs—spiritual, mental, physical. The
spiritual, by releasing him from mun-
dane matters and elevating him into
loftier realms of Olympian relaxation;
the mental by challenging his ingenuity
and his wits; the physical, by mobil-
izing into efficient and coordinated ac-
tion his muscles, glands, and nerves.
Recreation is Triple Re-creation, the
rebuilding of human soul, mind, and
body.

Why public recreation? Answer:
Because recreation, more often than not,
is antipathetic to isolation, to loneliness,
to introversion. Play is public: It is you
and I and our friends and the gang and
the crowd and the team and the stadium
full of color and clamor. It is picnics
and parades and festivals and carnivals
and circuses. Public recreation is an
inevitable, ineluctable concomintant of
democracy; for recreation is the play
of the peeple, the people’s pastimes. It
is leisure personified in public parks,

swimming pools, tennis courts, marinas,
beaches, mountain camps, school play-
grounds. It is democracy going all out
for fun after the business of the town
meeting is duly over.

Why recreation as a taxpayer’s
responsibility? Answer: Because in
our functioning democracy we strive
for a politic balance between private
enterprise and public obligation. Com-
mercial entrepreneurs offer the more
expensive, specialized, class-and-status-
favoring leisure-time opportunities,
sometimes even to the extent of exploit-
ing and commercializing the three needs
of man. Public governmental agencies
collect, via taxes, “admission” from all
the people, f0r “admission” of all the
people, thus providing the preponder-
ance of our population with facilities
and activities which private investors
find unalluring for profit-making pos-
sibilities. *

For these reasons, in the America of
today. Public Recreation is a Mod-
ern Must.

TED GORDON, Supervisor, Youth Serv-

ices Section, Los Angeles City

Schools.

*  us hear what you think about this!

Eliminate Barriers

Sirs:

I should like to commend your maga-
zine for the article in September issue
of RECREATION Magazine entitled “Il-
linois’ Flying Saucer.” The National
Society for Crippled Children and
Adults and the President’s Committee
on Employment of the Handicapped
are co-sponsoring an educational pro-
gram to eliminate architectural barriers
in buildings intended for public use.
This project seeks to make known the
problems of over twenty million citizens
who cannot use public facilities inde-
pendently, due to unintentional barriers
such as steps and narrow doorways.
One of the fundamental principles upon
which recreation is based is that all
people should have the opportunity to
participate. Not only is the “lllini”
assembly hall unique in design, but it
has the added quality of being usable
by every member of our society, regard-
less of age or physical impairment. The
building is ramped throughout and
toilet facilities are usable by those in
wheelchairs. Research directed by Pro-
fessor Timothy J. Nugent, director of
the University of Illinois Rehabilitation
Center, has evolved into a set of stand-
ard building specilications which can
be implemented to assure barrier free
construction to all. Through his efforts,
the Champaign campus and some off-
campus housing units are now accessi-
ble to handicapped students.

The job of eliminating architectural
barriers in recreational facilities begins

431

F“.

‘ olvmic

I Anschutz

l dominates
international
smallbore
matches

 

At the 1963 European Championships
in Oslo, 31 of 48 competitors in the
3-position match—and 9 of 12 winners
-—shot an Anschutz. The Match 54 has
walked off with a major share of the
honors at Sao Paulo, Cairo, Moscow—
at every recent international match.

The reason is obvious; famous Anschutz
precision, unparalleled accuracy that
means higher scores. The Match 54
action is satin-smooth, with a fully
adjustable trigger and hand-lapped
barrel. Model 1413, illustrated, with
international type stock, weight 15V2
lbs. 5275 (sights extra; with left-
hand stock, $287).

Model 1411, not shown, is the same
superlative Match 54 action in a U.S.
match-type stock. Weight 11 lbs. $145
(sights extra; left-hand stock, $157).

Prices subject to change. For free fu||~
color catalog, write Savage Arms, West-
field, Massachusetts 01085

 

4-32 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

with the recreation administrator who
helps develop the building plans to meet
the needs of his community. By empha-
sizing barrier-free construction he will
be fulfilling the recreational needs of
many more citizens in his community,
which had been heretofore unseen and
unnoticed because they seldom ventured
into the barrier-filled world.

We will be happy to supply interested
individuals with the American Stand-
ards Association Specifications for
“Making Buildings and Facilities Ac-
cessible to and Usably by the Physically
Handicapped” free of charge by writ-
ing: The National Society for Crippled
Children and Adults, 2023 West Ogden
Avenue, Chicago, Illinois 60612.

THOMAS A. STEIN, PH.D., Director,

Architectural Barriers Project, Na-

tional Society for Crippled Children
and Adults.

Ideas Wanted
Sirs:

I am trying to find suggestions on
how our town can conduct a Citizen of
the Year election each year . . . I would
appreciate any information you or your
readers might afford me.

ARTHUR L. MCMANUS, Director Bed-

ford Recreation Department, Bed ford,
Massachusetts.

Complete Response

Sirs:

We are thoroughly delighted with the
extremely comprehensive reply and en-
closures that [Donald V. Joyce and the
National Recreation Association’s Cor-
respondence and Consultation Service]
sent [us] with respect to the problem of
financing regional parks. This is by far
the most complete response we have
received to our inquiry which was pre-
sented to three or four different groups.
I compliment the NRA for providing
this professional service. We think it is
of the highest order and quality, and
we frankly are overwhelmed with the
obvious time and effort that it took to
pull these materials together.

EDWIN J. STALEY, Executive Director,

Recreation and Youth Services Plan-

ning Council, Los Angeles.

THE PERFEHST PACKAGED SHElTER!

  

THE UNITED WAY ‘l

 

NEW, LOW COST
VINYL LINERS FOR

SKATING RINKS

CONVERTS RECREATIONAL AREAS
(lawns, Tennis Courts. elc.)
INTO SKATING RINKS EASILY & QUICKLY

ICEMASTER is a low-cost sheeting
made of a tough, White, heavy gauge

plastic. Athletic fields and other fiat
terrain can be converted to skating
rinks easily and quickly with ICE-
MASTER. It provides harder, clearer
ice for a better and longer season.
No premature melting. Gives up to
200% additional skating time. ICE-
MASTER is resistant to tears and
cuts. Available for any size field. Send
for details.

STAFF INDUSTRIES, INC.

18-8 DRYDEN ROAD
UPPER MONTCLAIR, NJ. 01043

 

for QUALITY and
PERFORMANCE

ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT

JEFFERSON, IOWA, U.S.A.

 

Don’t forget. ..
every litter bit hurts

'im amiss”:
" “Sindhi

 

RECREATION

l

l

l
,1

AS WE GO TO PRESS

 

ORCHIDS 0R CAMELLIAS?

WARDING orchids to Floridians is
more or less like gilding the lily,
so it seems more appropriate to decor-
ate them with the even more beautiful
though humbler camellia of the South,
“in appreciation of their super perform-
ance as hosts” at the 46th National Rec-
reation Congress, which has just come
to a close in Miami Beach. It is the con-
sensus that this was one of the best
Congresses ever held. Cosponsored by
the NRA and ARS, with the coopera-
tion of the Miami Beach Recreation De-
partment, the Metropolitan Dade Coun-
ty Park and Recreation Department, the
Miami Beach Parks Department, the
Florida Recreation Association, the Or-
ange State Recreation Association, the
Florida Development Commission, and
the Federation of National Professional
Organizations for Recreation, it had a
registered attendance of approximately
twenty-two hundred assorted persons.
All had a lively interest in recreation
services for the nation and in today’s
new leisure. Unprecedented was the
turnout of three hundred enthusiastic
wives, double the usual number, who
not only had a wonderful time but in-
terrupted their sun tanning to take an
active part in their own outstanding
program. As a matter of fact, the whole
Congress crowded into one of the wives’
luncheons—the one featuring Eunice
Kennedy Shriver as speaker on “Recre-
ation for the Mentally Retarded.”

To Jack Woody, superintendent of
recreation in Miami Beach, and Marion
Wood Huey, assistant superintendent,
therefore, and to Metropolitan Dade
County executives, and their tireless
staffs, as well as to the staffs of all other
cooperating Florida departments, or-
ganizations, and agencies: our rousing
cheers for a wonderful Congress and a
job well done for the guests, the com-
munity, the state, and recreation. They
were always on hand when needed, dis-
patching endless chores with ease——
from welcoming delegates personally,
at the doors of both hotels, and intro-
ducing people,to shifting exhibits, guid-
ing tours, squiring visiting speakers,
VIP’s, and humbler guests from place
to place. Garlands to all, therefore, spe-
cial leis of the beautiful, wax-like
white camellia to each and every one!
For further news of the doings in Mi-
ami Beach, watch for the December

1964 issue of RECREATION.
I. II Ir

) A SPECIAL National Recreation Asso-
ciation national citation to Stewart L.
Udall, Secretary of the Interior, was an-
nounced at the organization’s annual

NOVEMBER, 1964

 

luncheon during the 46th National Rec-
reation Congress in Miami Beach on
October 5.

Secretary Udall was cited for his un.
tiring efforts to preserve the nation’s
natural resources for the recreation and
enjoyment of all people. He was ac-
claimed particularly for his successful
support of the Wilderness Bill and the
Land and Water Conservation Fund
Bills, both recently signed by President
Johnson.

Another specific tribute was paid by
Joseph Prendergast, NRA executive
director, to Nathan L. Mallison, super-
intendent of recreation in Jacksonville,
Florida, for “his many years of service
in the Florida area to the cause of better
recreation for all peOple.”

At the same time, Sanger P. Robin-
son, NRA board member, substituting
for Chairman James Evans, revealed
the establishment of an annual award
program for achievement in writing on
“Recreation for the Chronically 111” by
professional recreation personnel in the
United States. The Arthritis and Rheu-
matism Foundation, a national agency
concerned with research and treatment
of arthritis and related diseases, is the
sponsor of the award program which
will be administered by the NRA. The
award will be presented annually at the
Congress beginning next year. Write
for further details to Dr. Morton
Thompson, Director of NRA Consulta-
tion Service on Recreation for the Ill
and Handicapped, 8 West Eighth Street,
New York 10011.

> THE CLOSE RELATIONSHIPS which ex.
ist between our urban and rural areas
with respect to conservation and recre-
ation needs will be examined at a New
England Symposium on Conservation
and Recreation at Boston College on
November 17. One of the speakers will
be Peter Blake, managing editOr of
Architectural Forum and author of the
provocative God’s Own Junkyard (see
review in RECREATION, June 1964, Page
321). His topic will be, “The Uglifica-

tion of Our Urban Environment.”

COMING EVENTS

Third County Government Institute,
November 22-24, William and Mary Col-
lege, Williamsburg, Virginia. For further
information write to National Association
of Counties, Suite 428, 1001 Connecticut
Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C.

Women’s National Aquatic Forum,
December 22-29, Sea Garden Hotel, Pom-
pano Beach, Florida. For further infor-
mation, write to Mrs. Theresa Anderson,

Chairman, 2109 Fortieth Street, Des

Moines 10, Iowa.

Among issues discussed will be guide.
lines by which citizens may distinguish
unjustified encroachment from sound
development. The college’s Bureau of
Public Affairs Newsletter asks whether
you have a thought deserving group
consideration and, if so, suggests that
you write to Richard J. Olsen, Stafi
Coordinator, Bureau of Public Affairs,

Boston College, Chestnut Hill, Massa-
chusetts 02167.

> IF YOU CAN USE REPRINTS, especially
in quantity lots, of Bill Frederickson’s
“Blueprint for Organization”—-—-giving
the results of an industrial engineering
study of the operations of the Los An-
geles Department of Recreation and
Parks—which was published in the Oc-
tober 1964 issue of RECREATION, please
let us know at once. Whether or not we
make these available will depend upon
your prompt replies. Address Editorial
Staff, RECREATION Magazine, 8 West
Eighth Street, New York 10011.

) DETAILS ON FOURTEEN Job Corps
camps for more than thirteen hundred
men have been released by Secretary
of the Interior Stewart Udall. The
camps are in national parks, wildlife
refuges, on reclamation projects and
Indian reservations, and other public
lands administered by Interior. Eight
additional camps will be operated by

the Forest Service, U. S. Department of
Agriculture.

Each camp will originally take about
a hundred men of the Job Corps, and a
few of them will gradually be built up
to handle two hundred. In getting the
program started, existing facilities are
being used to the fullest extent possible.

The fourteen sites selected for early
use are in Arizona, California, Colo-
rado, Massachusetts, New Mexico, New
York, Oregon, Utah, Washington, and
Wyoming. Men started arriving at the
camps in October, and will immediately

begin their combined program of work
and education.

Secretary Udall explained that Inter-
ior’s Job Corps camps will be located on
public lands managed by the depart-
ment. Administration of the camps will
be handled by bureaus of the depart-
ment with the education and welfare
programs for the men being drawn up
and overseen by the new Oflice of Eco-
nomic Opportunity. The work program
at each camp will include a wide variety
of conservation projects—providing
more outdoor recreation facilities, re-
forestation and timber stand improve.
ment, wildlife habitat development,
stream clearance, and others.

433

 

THINGS YOU SHOULD KNOW

> MORE THAN A HUNDRED THOUSAND
acres of valuable urban open-space land
have been saved for present and future
generations in 177communities through-
out the nation with the aid of the Urban
Renewal Administration’s three-year-
old Open-Space Land Program, an-
nounces Urban Renewal Commissioner
William L. Slayton. Commenting on a
special report recently released by the
URA, Preserving Urban Open-Space
Land—The First Three Years, Commis-
sioner Slayton points out that $32,000,-
000 in federal grants for Open-space
land were primarily concentrated in the
large, fast-growing regions of the na-
tion where problems of open space are
most critical. The Northeast, Middle
Atlantic, Midwest, and the West Coast
regions received the majority of the 219
grants. Nearly half went to metropoli-
tan areas having populations of over
one million. Thirty-one projects were
approved for New York State, twenty-
six for New Jersey, fifteen for Illinois,
and thirty-three for California.

The Open-Space Land Program was
authorized by Congress in the Hous-
ing Act of 1961. It authorizes the fed-
eral government to make grants to lo-
calities of up to thirty percent of the
cost of undeveloped land for recreation,
scenic, historic, and conservation pur-
poses.

> CLEAN-IT-YOURSELF. Litterbugs in a
growing number of states are facing a
new and persuasive punishment. Judges,
losing patience with the purveyors of
trash, are sentencing offenders to clean-

up stints along state highways in lieu
of fines and terms in the jailhouse. High-
way “clean-up sentences” have been
levied by judges in New Jersey, Cali-
fornia, Missouri, South Dakota, Mary-
land, and Michigan.

} RELIGIOUS PLAYWRITING CONTEST.
The church recreation department of
the Baptist Sunday School Board has
initiated its second playwriting com-
petition which will continue through
November 15, 1965. Purpose of the
contest is to find well-written one-act
religious plays (modern and biblical)
that will meet the needs of Southern
Baptist churches. “We seek plays with
religious themes which deal with im-
portant human problems in a Christian
context,” says Bob M. Boyd, department
secretary. To be considered, a play
must: (1) be appropriate for use in a
church, (2) have a maximum playing
time of one hour, (3) be original and
unpublished, and (4) be practical in
staging requirements (within the reach
Of the average church group).

First-, second-, and third-place awards
amounting to $900 will be given. Broad-
man Press, Nashville, will have the
privilege of first consideration of all
submitted manuscripts for publication.

} Gifts and donations continue to en-
rich community and private agency rec-
reation programs and facilities. Among
recent contributions of special interest
are:

° A grant of $23,360 to the District of
Columbia Recreation Department from
the Meyer Foundation to train leaders
for delinquent youth groups.

ANTI-POVERTY PROGRAMS

I I 0W CAN recreators cooperate in

9“

the nation 5 war on poverty”?
The new Anti-Poverty Bill (S. 2642,
Public Law 88-452) provides plenty
of ammunition. It establishes an 0f-
fice of Economic Opportunity, Job
Corps, Domestic Peace Corps, work-
study and work-training plans for
youths, and assistance for local pro-
grams. Basically, the anti-poverty
campaign can be considered as a
three-year “economic Opportunity”
program which has been divided into
ten separate projects. The main em-
phasis in the war-on-poverty effort
will be on jobs and training for obs.
The anti-poverty program when it
receives pending Congressional ap-
propriations will include:
o Work training in conservation
camps and hometown projects for

youngsters aged sixteen through
twenty-one.

I Federal grants to help local com-
munities establish their own pro-
grams tO eradicate poverty.

0 Basic education in reading, writ-
ing, and arithmetic for adults whose
illiteracy has barred them from both
jobs and vocational training.

0 Subsidized part-time obs to help
needy students finance their college
education.

- Expanded vocational training for
unemployed fathers on welfare rolls.
0 Loans to individuals and coopera-
tives to help poor rural families pur-
chase farmland and equipment, and
federal help in providing health,
housing, and welfare programs for
migrant farm families.

0 Loans to establish small busi-
nesses or to enable small business-
men to provide work opportunities
for long-term unemployed.

I Creation of the Volunteers in Serv-
ice to America (VISTA)—often
described as a domestic peace corps
—to work in areas of social-service
need such as mental hospitals, among
migrant families, and in the nation’s
numerous Indian reservations.

 

434

' From the Kresge Foundation, $10,000
to the Kentucky Society of Crippled
Children to develop a camp for physi-
cally handicapped and blind children.
' Land valued at $40,000 was given by
the Athwin Foundation to Minnetonka
Village, Minnesota, for a public park or
playground.

' The Roman Catholic Diocese of
Bridgeport, Connecticut, received prop-
erty valued at $170,059 from the Bridge-
port Brass Foundation for a recreation
center.

° The city of Reno, Nevada, will de-
velop its parks with a gift of $250,000
from the Fleischmann Foundation.

° The Fleischmann Foundation has al-

so given 250 acres valued at $1,500,000 I

to Ventura, California, for a park.

b EDUCATION GRANTS. The department
of recreation and municipal park ad-
ministration, College of Physical Edu-
cation, University of Illinois, has been
awarded a grant of $9,430 for the 1964-
65 academic year, Chairman Charles K.
Brightbill announced recently. The
grant comes from the U. S. Department
of Health, Education and Welfare Office
of Vocational Rehabilitation, Washing-
ton 25, D. C. The project involves three
fellowships for the purposes Of provid-
ing stipends for students in the gradu-
ate therapeutic recreation professional
training program. Three graduate stu-
dents will be working toward master of
science degrees in recreation and will be
concerned with the training of person-
nel in therapeutic recreation as well as
perfecting the skills and techniques for
providing recreation services to the ill
and disabled.

In addition, six undergraduate stu-
dents in the same department have been
awarded Department of Mental Health
Employment-Education grants. These
grants are awarded throughout the state
each year and cover tuition fees and

books to recreation majors whose study '

is centered in the therapeutic program.

> THE USE OF SPORT PINS as a fund-
raising device has had great success in
many sports, according to a release
from the Amateur Athletic Union. This
success can undoubtedly be continued
if judiciously promoted. It is a step
toward making sure that the sports pub—
lic knows which amateur athletics are
governed by the AAU. To that end, af-
ter discussions with the Advisory Com-
mittee, AAU President Jay-Ehret Ma-
honey has directed that all pins whose
sale is being promoted by AAU sports
committees must have a background of
the AAU emblem or the letters AAU
on the pin. These pins should help raise
funds year in and year out for various
sports funds. The AAU Basketball
Committee has already developed a fine

pin with the AAU shield on a basketball.

RECREATION

 

Joseph Prendergast

 

 

Howard Holman

    
    

William Pond

.2»:

Charles Reitz

NOVEMBER, 1964

NEW CPRS-NRA AGREEMENT

HE National Recreation Association and
Tthe California Park and Recreation So-

ciety, a fourteen hundred-member, state-
wide professional organization, signed a three-
year agreement in August which has physically
and functionally combined the NRA Pacific
Southwest District office, formerly in Los An-
geles with the CPRS home office in Fresno,
California. The major reason for establishing
the joint Fresno office is utilization of the re-
sources of CPRS and the NRA Pacific South-
west District in providing mutual services to
CPRS members and to NRA’s Pacific South-
west Service Associates and Affiliates. The
agreement will:

1. Establish and maintain a five-state Pacific
Southwest area job-Opportunity service for
CPRS and NRA Associates and Affiliates.

2. Make available the professional services
of the NRA district representative for joint
CPRS-NRA district projects and services.

3. Provide the NRA district representative
as coordinator for the annual California and
Pacific Southwest Recreation and Park Con-
ference.

4. Enable the NRA district representative to
assist in the editing of publications of the So-
ciety and N RA’S PSW District.

Further conditions of the agreement include
CPRS and NRA each paying half of the office
rental and both organizations paying for their
own stationery, postage, office supplies, tele-
phone, telegraph services, and respective office
furniture and furnishings. NRA will continue
to provide salary, transportation, and the busi-
ness expenses of the Association’s district rep-
resentative, and the Society will provide all

stenographic and clerical staff for the combined ‘

office.

N 0 other mutual service will be initiated with-
out prior approval of the CPRS Board of Direc-
tors and the executive director of NRA or his
representative. Potential new mutual services
and projects will be studied and recommended
by appropriate CPRS committees working with
the NRA district representative and the Asso-
ciation’s PSW District Advisory Committee.
Many of the new services are expected to be

available to the entire PSW District (Califor-

Offices and services are
now combined

nia, Arizona, Nevada, Utah, and Hawaii). To
fulfill requirements of the contract, CPRS will
provide one additional secretary to work in the
combined office, with half of his time to be re-
lated to the increased membership services of
the combined office. In return, the NRA will
provide the professional staff assistance of the
NRA district representative, Charles Reitz.
Why should CPRS and the NRA’s PSW Dis-
trict combine office and professional staff func-
tions? In all honesty, both organizations are
realizing they cannot fulfill their aims and ob-
jectives without considerable assistance from
each other. CPRS, founded in 1944, has estab-
lished several fine state-wide services, includ-
ing a volunteer registration plan and examina-
tion for recreation professionals, a Code of
Ethics, a monthly publication, local workshops,
state-wide institutes, and the regional confer-
ence. It also has an effective home office with
one full-time secretary. The Society is basically
dependent upon the committee process to initi-
ate and accomplish services. Over the years,
this process has tended to have considerable
limitations. It was felt these could be mini-
mized if CPRS had structured relations with
other organizations for the purpose of creating
ongoing sources of mutual services and proj-
ects. NRA faces the problem of having one
district representative serving five states, which
are experiencing rapid population growth, with
over six-hundred public recreation and park

. agencies.

HE FACT that NRA and CPRS have simi-

lar aims and objectives makes it obvious
that cooperation is logical and desirable. How
did this formal arrangement actually come
about? The story begins on November 22,
1963, in San. Francisco, when the incoming
CPRS President, Gene Saalwaechter, met with
Charles J. Reitz, NRA district representative;
John Collier, former NRA PSW District repre-

sentative, now director of recreation and parks

in Anaheim; Elmer Aldrich, then chief of the

State of California Division of Recreation; and
Bob Amyx, incoming president of CPRS Ad-
ministrators’ Section, to informally discuss how

CPRS, NRA, and the State of California Divi-
435

sion of Recreation might more closely COOperate on projects
and services of mutual interest and concern.

The 16th Annual California and Pacific Southwest Recre-
ation and Park Conference, held in Anaheim last February,
provided the next opportunity for discussion as Joseph
Prendergast, NRA executive director, was in attendance.
Informal meetings were held at the conference, of Gene
Saalwaechter; Howard Holman, director of parks and recre-
ation in Fresno and CPRS Headquarters Committee chair-
man; Joseph Prendergast; John Collier; William Pond, di-
rector of recreation and parks for Sacramento County and
NRA’s PSW District Advisory Committee chairman; and
Charles Reitz. Howard Holman had been asked by the NRA
District Advisory Committee to do an evaluative study of
NRA’s PSW District services and he was to include possible
relationships with CPRS. The study committee also included
Paul Rose, Salt Lake County, Utah; Kenneth Smithee, Mari-
copa County, Arizona; and Robert Forson, North Las Vegas,
Nevada. The CPRS Board of Directors in February ap-
proved participation in the study.

In May, the CPRS board heard Howard Holman’s pre-
liminary report. The twenty-three member board then at-
tended a special meeting on July 17, at the request of the
CPRS president, to take action on the then completed ten-
page report. This included:

RECOMMENDED GOALS FOR
NRA-PSW DISTRICT

1. Establishment of centralized district-wide personnel
service: receiving announcements of available openings;
maintaining a tile of interested applicants; disseminating in-
formation on available openings.

2. Provision of community counseling, such as consulta-
tion with lay and professional personnel regarding the com-
munity organization; program, services, administration, fa-
cilities, and problems.

3. Development of resource tiles on legislative enact-
ments, legal interpretations, professional assistance, tech-
nical data.

4. Initiation, coordination, and supervision of surveys
and studies utilizing available trained professionals within
the district.

5. Coordination of, and cooperation in, planning and
programing conferences.

6. Stimulation of, and cooperation with, training of pro-
fessional and volunteer personnel through workshops and
institutes.

7 Strengthening ties with the state professional organi-
zations through closer communication and cooperation.

8. Provision of an adequate interchange of professional
information.

9. Coordination and cooperation in every way possible
to broaden, improve, and strengthen the pre-professional
training in colleges and universities.

10. Maintenance of close relationships with the existing
strong state-wide organizations concerned with government,
education, and recreation, such as Leagues of Cities, County
Supervisors’ Association, PTA’s, and the like. Make peri-
odic, yearly, visits to their headquarters and attend their

436

conferences and meetings when possible.

11. Stimulation of research and investigations in parks
and recreation and allied fields. Review of such work and
provision of summary information throughout the district
on such work and its results.

12. Provision of assistance, advice, and coordination in
improving on-post and off-post recreation services to mili-
tary personnel and their dependents.

It was obvious that any NRA district representative would
find most of these goals quite unattainable, if not impossible,
without considerable assistance. Therefore, one of the con-
clusions of the report was that “the NRA will need to be
clearly identifiable through the activities of its district rep-
resentative, and this identification may have to depend less
upon individual contacts or visitations and more upon con-
tact with professional organizations, regional headquarters
of agencies, group meetings, and the utilization of others to
perform certain of the traditional functions of the district
representative.”

AT THIS MEETING on July 17, the CPRS Board of Direc-

tors also unanimously passed a resolution recommend-
ing to NRA that CPRS and NRA’s PSW District combine
oHice and organizational resources for mutual benefit and
service. The recommended conditions of an agreement were
also outlined in the resolution.

William Pond, as chairman of NRA’s PSW District Ad-
visory Committee, wrote Mr. Prendergast that the combined
oflice proposal “seems to be one of the most forward steps
which could be taken by our service organization working
with a professional organization.” Mr. Prendergast’s reac-
tion to Howard Holman’s committee report, William Pond’s
recommendations, and CPRS action was one of enthusiastic
approval and appreciation.

After CPRS approval of the joint office on July 17, there
remained the actual contractual agreement between CPRS
and NRA. Mr. Saalwaechter again called on Howard Hol-
man, this time as CPRS Headquarters chairman, to develop
a draft of an agreement. This he did and it was approved by
the CPRS Executive Council, which had been authorized to
act upon it by the Board of Directors, and by Mr. Prender-

gast.
Thus, the story begun in November ended nine months

later, with two signatures on a written contract. But this is
not the end. This is the beginning of a new future for CPRS
and NRA’s PSW District. The live-state job opportunity
service has already been initiated and that several new proj-
ects can be expected before the year is out. The two organiza-
tions have renewed strength because they have found their

friends, who incidentally were always there, in the common
bond of service. #

I
Retarded Children f
Can Be Helped \

NOVEMBER 15-26 National Retarded Childrn's Week

 

        

RECREATION

 

Barbara Chapin

MAZING, the need for, and the re-
ponse of, young people to sheer
quietness. Recently, I sat next to a boy
on what was his first trip to the country.
Luckily, the bus was old and went slow-
ly, with windows down. He was a boy
I had seen weekly for nearly a year,
but he had never said more than hello
or good-bye to me during that time.
Suddenly, he turned and asked, “The
trees are quiet. It’s alright for them to
be quiet, isn’t it?” It was not really a
question and he turned back to the win-
dow, watching in complete awe the for-
ests we drove by. About half an hour
later he turned to me again. “It’s so
still it scares me,” he confided. Mistak-
ing his meaning, I started to say some-
thing reassuring, but he stopped me in
time. “Shh--” he said. “I just want to
hear all that no-sound nothing out
there.”

Sometimes it seems to me that in our
busy culture what we need are not more
places to do things, or people to help us
do them, but rather more areas where
nothing happens, unless it comes about
through those who are there at the mo-
ment. I know how many times a boy
or girl has sat next to me for perhaps
half an hour, saying nothing, and we
have become friends. The child did not
need someone to tell him what to do or
how to do it, to scold, or to encourage

MISS CHAPIN is consultant on peace
literature for the American Friends
Service Committee and also a free-lance
writer.

NOVEMBER, 1964

him to act. He needed a place to re-
fuel, with someone near who did not
threaten his solitude.

Often such times for retreat and eval-
uation spell the difference between a
child growing into himself, or that same
child accepting a mask, or living a lie.
If the pressure is too great, children may
imitate or comply simply to be incon-
spicuous.

I think of a boy I studied who did not
care what people said, and found a place
where he could sit alone, on the side-
lines, week after week watching. He
was gathering strength. Suddenly, he
was ready. He went out into the group,
expressing what he himself believed and
felt. He became a leader; simply
through his own inner sense of what
was right for him, he gained authenti-
city. But it took a long period of self-
fortification, which he himself timed
and directed. ‘

Or I think of a girl I have often seen
on the street, surrounded by noisy,
troublesome youngsters from whom she
knows no escape, and how she comes to
a place where she can sit alone without
people swarming around her, trying to
discover what it is she really wants to
be. Or a group of boys so close to de-
linquency that a few of them are actu-
ally on parole. One night they discov-
ered an unused fireplace and, with per-
mission, collected wood and lit a fire.
As the flickering light moved in the
darkness, the entire place filled with
silence—a hush of awe. All evening

GUEST EDITORIAL

 

The need for (lo-nothing quietude . . .

long those boys sat staring into the
flames, completely absorbed.

WE KNOW what a campfire means in
terms of comradeship, warmth,
and glow. But where can the city child
experience this? What can he know
about fire? Oh, he can follow the en-
gines that rumble through the streets
at any hour of night or day, and watch
a building disintegrate, or see some
dirty mattress or chair thrown from a
smoking window. He can see a fire in
the gas stove, or sometimes he can see
workmen around a fire in an excavation
for a building. But where else can he
make contact with the miracle and the
nobility of flame?

This is a situation which will grow
worse, not better, as long as our cities
grow in terms of expediency. Stereo-
typed housing removes the kind of acci-
dental private corners a child might
find for solitude; costs prohibit fire-
places, not only in homes, but in recre-
ation centers; the crowded areas for
play mean constantly increasing restric-
tions of program and space enclosing
the child who desperately needs room
to explore. TV at home, the constant
hum of construction, destruction, and
disposal in his streets, and the shout and
cries of organized sports have their
place. But there are times when the
human spirit, soul, imagination must
wander unmarked trails, face loneliness,
experience being lost in thought or na-
ture, know the wonder of discovering

437

 

w ww.__._

l

O MASON MINTS 0 ALMOND COCOANUT
O ASSORTED JELLIES O WALNUT FUDGE

 

No money in advance...no risk...no
obligation. We will give you a FREE
dollar box of nationally known Mason
candy and tell you how your organiza-
tion can make 40¢ on every $1.00 box.
You have a choice of four varieties of
Mason Candies. At no extra charge each
package is wrapped with your organiza-
tion's name and picture. You pay only
AFTER you have sold the candy. '

Return what you don’t sell. More than
60,000 organizations have raised money
this easy way. So can you! For informa-
tion, fill in and mail this coupon today!

MRS. MARY TAYLOR. DEPT. 756
MASON. BOX 549. MINEOLA, N. Y.

GENTLEMEN: PLEASE SEND ME,
WITHOUT OBLIGATION, INFORMA-
TION ON YOUR FUND RAISING PLAN.

NAMg
AGE in: UNDER 21)

ORGANIZATION
ADDRESS

CITY
COUNTY

HOW MANY MEMBERS

PHONE
eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee

 

 

___..__STAT E___-

 

 

 

4133

 

that you can find yourself through lis-
tening to the silence. To those who live
in cities, quiet may be the most prec-
ions, the most difficult to find of all life’s
many treasures.

How CAN YOU PLAN for quietude? Of

course, in a sense you cannot, but
you can provide the opportunities, the
clearings for it to happen. This may
be hard to do. It means a room without
activity, perhaps where activity is for-
hidden, a space on the schedule without
program, perhaps even a fireplace in a
new building. All such items will meet
criticism as uneconomical use of space,
as “not getting the children anywhere,”
or, in general, as being useless and
wasteful. Now you must defend the
need for (lo-nothing for its true, intan-
gible value, for the part it plays in help-
ing a child discover and build his inner
self. And you must help those who
work with children understand that sil-
ence is not space to be filled, nor sad-
ness, even, something that should be
taken from a child. Violence is done
to the child lost in inner contemplation,
be it sad or serious, melancholy, even
brooding in appearance, to whom some

 

:AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA:
D
3 anon/an lL©RlE ;
4 r v 0 CRAFTS 0 KITS 0 LITERATURE D
4 ' SUPPLIES ' COSTUMES ' PRINTS >
‘ Authentic and 'complete for beginners >
‘ and experts. Shipped let-edtehly. p
: I . Since 1927lPost: New York City :
‘ . Museum: Monroe. N. Y. >
: PLUME TRADING co. ;
A t Dept.21lD,Box585,Monroe,N.Y.l
4 b
Yours FREE, the finest catalog and
4 . . p
‘ price list. >
( Neme___.________ b
: ‘ Address_______ :
4 City...____5tste_ b
4 b

i.
a
i
3

goodhearted but insensitive person
says: “Now let’s stop this nonsense.
Come have a game of Monopoly.” The
frustration, the irritation cannot be ex-
plained by the child, who may play to
conform or please, or leave in protest,
but the crippling stoppage of growth
cannot be wiped away.

So perhaps your schedules can read
“Storytelling” or “Fireplace Time,” or
more directly “Do-Nothing Time,” and
then, of course, quiet will not happen
on schedule. So everyone must be
Hexible enough to make that “time” any
time when the mood hits—individual
or group. And then, equally unsched-
uled, the moment will come when the
quiet explodes into laughter or roars of
dazzling sound, and the group bursts
out of the place of seclusion, the apart-
ness.

So, it may be that, in the midst of all
that can be done, there is this area of
the tan-doing . . . the moments we must
be alert and ready to respond to when
the child, often timid and uncertain
about making such a bold demand,

whispers, “Shh—” #-

 

 

GtR.

 

   

From 20# to too# Capacity
“ACE MODEL SHOWN"

Force Feed -— Instant

ShutoR — 50 lbs. Ca-
pacity.

Shaker In Hopper ler
Constant Flow.

Adiustable Control on
Handle.

SAVES TIME AND
MATERIAL

Send to Dept. R for booklet on other 4 models.
-I. 8. R. MFG. CO., LOS ANGELES 34. CALIF.

 

 

  
  

- -‘ / 4‘ I
Folding and i' -‘ ’ .
Stacking Chairs ' __ --—/

Reund and
supere Tables

7. .._,
l ' I '
E -

 
 

   
   
 

 
        
 

FREE

DIRECT PRICE
CATALOG

    
  
 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

/

‘3
‘l
i

I
l
t
.I
I
t

  
  
    

HE MONROE CO. in causes 51., comx, IOWA

oven ONE MILLION sow!

QUALITY

WIZ/Wé

FOLDING BANQUET TABLES

Churches, schools, clubs, lodges—your organ-
ization, too, can order modern Monroe Folding
Tables at our direct-trom-tactory money-
saving prices! Complete stock of. models,
styles and sizes. Attractive savings on chairs,
storage trucks partitions. risers, etc. Send
today for FREE 40-page catalog!

  
  

      

 

RECREATION

|

EDITORIALLY SPEAKING

 

Recreation—
Tool of Democracy

WHAT do our pe0ple want out of

life? The answer generally would
be “health, happiness, prosperity, love,
and an Opportunity to serve and con-
tribute to the general welfare of their
friends and neighbors,” writes Walter
Zimmerman, recreation director in Bill-
ings, Montana, in a guest editorial for
The Billings Gazette. Says Mr. Zimmer-
man, “It is my belief that recreation can
shape lives and personalities of our peo-
ple to meet these needs. It provides the
opportunity for self-expression and
leadership; it is a wonderful tool of
democracy; it brings all corners of our
city’s people together; and it helps our
citizens find themselves.”

In the same editorial, Mr. Zimmer-
man quotes John Keats’ complaint in
The Crack in the Picture Window that
“look-alike people act alike in look-
alike houses, and go burbling off to-
gether down their peculiar roads to
inanity.” Declares Mr. Zimmerman,
“Here once again recreation provides
an escape from routine stratigraphic
lives, affording our people a freedom of
choice in What they want to do. They
may follow their own interests and in-
clination without the restrictions of
regulations or schedules; they may
choose positively; or they may choose
negatively. Herein lies the challenge to
our leadership: to promote, encourage,
and inspire the positive deveIOpment of
recreation in leisure; to enable the in-
dividual to live a richer life through
our opportunities to broaden recreation
interests and to develop latent talents.
This is our responsibility.”

Our Worst Enemy

BECAUSE time is not on our side and

public apathy is against us the
public must be reminded that the world
shortage of adequate recreation and
leisure-time facilities will be even more
acute tomorrow than it is today. This
is because we live in an age of shorter
workdays and more time for leisure, in
an age of rising income with more
monies for discretionary spending, and

NOVEMBER, 1964

Dorothy Donaldson

in an age of exploding population . . .

So, however urgent the shortage of
recreational facilities today, it will be
greater tomorrow. And unless we make
the public consciously aware of all these
facts we will not get the money.

Our job will not be easy because of
our worst enemy—public apathy—that
apathy which permits us to admire the
majesty of a great mountain . . . then
allow its desecration in the name of
what some self-serving group says is
progress, or enables us to worship na-
ture grandeur in stately trees a hundred
years in the growing, then stand silent-
ly by while they are chopped down
because they are alleged to be in the
way of what some tongue-in-cheek soph-
ist calls progress.

But this apathy and indifference is a
challenge, not an alibi for either failure
or inaction.

By accepting this challenge, we can
become, in large measure, ministers to
the welfare of mankind. For every time
we preserve or create a park or a rec-
reational facility we have created a
natural means of communication that
overspans differences in languages,
creeds, and races.

“Somebody

#4,; " 0.,

 

 

_ a

You might say we have built a bridge
of understanding and aspiration as real
and significant as a rainbow, and as
hopeful to all mankind—J. AUSTIN
SMITH, President of the Locker Division
of the leible Company, in address
delivered at The World Recreation

Congress, Japan, October 1964.

Recreation—An Investment

To INVEST in recreation is to invest
in people. I know of no better
investment 3 company can make than to
invest in its human resources. Even
more than its research programs, its
facilities, or its financial strength a
company’s human assets determine its
future.

We invest heavily in our human re-
sources at Lockheed, and we give much
consideration to recreation programs.
They are a good investment. Our com-
pany philosophy is to strive for excel-
lence in everything we do, and recre-
ation is no exception . . . We take a
direct management interest in making
our recreation programs broad and
creative and responsive to employe
needs. We support them fully because
they pay rich dividends in ways we
cannot always measure but can never
fail to see.--—DANIEL J. HAUGHTON,
President, Lockheed Aircraft Corpora-
tion in Recreation Management, August

1964.

 

forgot. . . every litter hit hurts”

' v-1...— W

 

CULTURAL GROWTH l

The national increase in cultural interests and

activities reveal some delightfully MAD moments . . .

 

Art is enjoyable at any age.

Joseph Prendergast

M ANY NEW developments in recrea-

tion have taken place during the
past decade. One of the most important
has been the steady increase in the ex-
tent and variety of cultural activities
within the area of community recrea-
tion.

One highly amusing and significant
development involves a large number of teenagers in Di-
nuba, California, who have organized themselves into a
group called MAD! In this case, MAD stands for Music,
Arts and Dance! This large group of MAD teenagers con-
sists of various units which render community service in the
performing arts. Those who are talented in dance, create
dance programs; those who are interested in music have
organized themselves into various vocal and instrumental
groups; those interested in the arts, both plastic and graphic,
hold exhibits of their works; and the drama group troups
shows. These programs are taken to institutions, presented
to the public on various occasions, and, in general, are used
to serve the community and the young people participating.

MAD is but one of a great number of many new programs

 

 

MR. PRENDERGAST is executive director of the National Rec-
reation Association.

440

in the cultural recreation field. Another notable example
is a program now operating in Oakland, California, made
possible by a grant from the Ford Foundation. Its purposes:
0 To help people learn social skills in a systematic manner.
0 To help people acquire attitudes of cultural significance.
0 To help people participate in a wider range of social
circles.

The foregoing objectives have been crystalized into a
program for boys and girls in tumbling, arts and crafts, and
drama; a cultural arts workshop; a volunteer leadership
training workshop; a Negro history program; a series of
lectures on the arts for teenagers; a May festival; a program
for young boys and girls, six to eight years of age, called
“Movement in Relation to the Arts”; another program called
“Exploring the Arts,” which introduces young boys and
girls to a Wide variety of cultural activities in the area; a
special day-camp program with the theme “Our Cultural
Heritage”; and several other similar programs.

In view of the constant growth of cultural programs in
recent years, the National Recreation Association has pre-
pared a series of reports on performing arts, published as
bonus supplements in RECREATION MAGAZINE. The reports
already published include Music Is Recreation, Drama Is
Recreation, Dance Is Recreation, and Poetry I s Recreation.
The final supplement in this series, Opera Is Recreation,
appears in this issue.

The Association’s National Advisory Committee on Pro-
grams and Activities has collected data from ninety-six
cities on cultural programs and next year will publish a
Guide to the Organization and Administration of Cultural
Recreation Programs based on this data. There is con-
vincing evidence that the arts in community recreation have
reached the stage which would benefit from the full im-
plementation of the education-recreation phases of the
Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts to be established
in Washington. Cultural programs developed through com-
munity recreation will eventually grow into programs which
can be related to the Kennedy Center as a very fine expres-
sion of American life.

Twenty community recreation programs have established
cultural divisions. The last one to set up such a division is
in Seattle, Washington, under the direction of William
Shumard, superintendent of recreation. There is a strong
possibility that the next area to establish a cultural division
will be Montgomery County, Maryland.

RECREATION

.l

JAPl’l‘AL LETTERS!

THE WHOLE FIELD of cultural growth and development is
a highly complex and widespread one, but NRA is
especially pleased with the steady growth of interest and
participation in the arts at the recreation level. The growth
of cultural centers on university and college campuses has
been phenomenal and will have its effect on communities
throughout the nation. The list is a very impressive one
and is becoming larger. These new civic centers will also
have a great effect on our community life. Recreation is in
the position to relate many of these new resources to resi-
dents of communities, both on a neighborhood basis and on
a community-wide basis.

Much has been done in recent years to conserve and im-
plement natural resources for recreation purposes. We must
never forget that recreation is first and foremost concerned
with the conservation of human resources. In the cultural
field, human resources, the way they are used and the way
they are spent, will determine the future of our nation.

For many years we depended upon Europe for our cul-
tural resources. Today, the United States has some of the
greatest symphonies, it has some of the greatest artists in the
world, and, above all, it has an unlimited supply of highly
talented young boys and girls. The cultural resources are of
such importance and such significance and so vital that we
simply cannot ignore them. We must give them our most
careful attention, guidance, and direction. We must not be
uncritical. The tendency in recreation programing is to adopt
a sort of laisser-faire policy and allow things to take place
with a minimum of direction. However, the time has come
when we must exercise a greater degree of guidance in the
whole field of cultural recreation. The Association believes
that recreation can serve to achieve a cultural democracy
of the highest quality. How can such a democracy be at-
tained, at least from the standpoint of recreation?

First of all, we need the best possible leadership available.
Wherever community recreation programs have provided
such leadership, the results and benefits have been truly
amazing. Such communities have been able to create first-
rate creative dramatic programs on playgrounds, first-rate
children’s theater———by children for children, and adult chil-
dren’s theater for children. Such leadership has made pos-
sible excellent music programs, both orchestral and choral.
About thirty of our community recreation programs in the
country now produce operas with amateurs. Some of the
finest modern dance and ballet groups have come into being
through such leadership. A substantial number of com-
munity recreation agencies have the highest type of cultural
programs in operation under expert leadership—programs
which command the respect and support of those in the
community seriously concerned with the arts.

We must also provide more adequate facilities for the arts

NOVEMBER, 1964

in our recreation programs than are available at present.
We do need more and better outdoor theaters, more and
better craft rooms, more and better children’s theaters, more
and better mobile units that can go from neighborhood to
neighborhood, such as show wagons, art mobiles, et cetera.

AS RECREATION LEADERS we must ally ourselves more
closely with those organizations and individuals who
are seriously concerned with the arts at their highest level.
Consider the following ten-point program for the develop-
ment of the cultural phases of recreation.

1. Cultivate the broadest possible concepts for the role
of organized recreation in the arts.

2. Create and strengthen cultural planning advisory
bodies within the administrative structure of organized
recreation and establish liaison with appropriate organiza-
tions and institutions.

3. Develop policies and practices for the arts as recrea-
tion in accordance with general policy which do not restrict
but rather encourage expansion and Hexibility.

4. Encourage the use of specialized leadership of quality
in building the cultural recreation program:

5. Arrange for more workshops in the various arts for
exploratory purposes as well as training purposes.

6. Develop better techniques for educating authorities,
the staff, and the public in the use and benefits of a cultural
recreation program.

7. Undertake the formation of new groups and special
events. Cultivate the indigenous.

8. Make freer, fuller, more frequent use of talented groups
and individuals in reaching the public, using them for civic
purposes and for interpreting recreation.

9. Accumulate a supply of basic and useful equipment for
the various arts. Plan for and increase the availability of
basic facilities for the arts.

lOfilConstantly strive for quality in this phase of the or-
ganizedérecreation programs.

We must also realize that the United States has a tre-
mendous number of young people who will in the future be-
come leaders in the world of art, as they will become leaders
in other segments of American life. N 0 one knows where
talent originates. It can originate anywhere. Let us not
ignore it. Let us give it every opportunity to grow in our
recreation programs. Creative talent in the arts is not only
important to the arts themselves, but to industry, business,
education, religion, and every other facet of our society.
Like those Dinuba teenagers we must become MAD about
culture because it offers great opportunities for community
service, much happiness and excitement, and a brighter
future for our creative citizens and people throughout the

world. #

441

—

Building a Park and Recreatio

Willamalane’s covered combination.
indoor-outdoor pool gives

district residents the largest
covered swim facility in

the Pacihc Northwest, with
year-round swimming instead

of just three months.

 

apartment

Robert M. Artz

IN THE EARLY 1940’s one could clearly
see the tremendous growth of Spring-
field and Lane County, Oregon, and
even the almost disastrous effect it
would have upon this community and
area unless properly controlled. All too
suddenly, open areas became sites for
new homes, businesses, and industries,
leaving little room for park and recreation activities. Many
realized the critical situation, but only one man could see
the way to eliminate the problem. Judge William S. Fort,
then county district attorney, decided it was time to act upon

 

this problem. Out of his efforts came the proposal for a
special park and recreation district—completely out of city,
school or county government. Enthusiasm for the idea grew,
and at the general election in 1944, the proposal was passed
by a vote of the people,

The Willamalane Park and Recreation District was the
first such special district created which is still in existence.
It was oflicially established by a vote of the people at a gen-
eral election in 1944 and has shown a steady, rapid rate of

growth since its inception. The Willamalane District is lo-
cated in the southern portion of the famous Willamette Val-
ley in Western Oregon, in the city of Springfield, the sixth
largest (and most rapidly growing) city in Oregon and the
east Lane County area. It is 120 miles south of Portland,
Oregon, and its boundaries extend westward to connect the
boundaries of Eugene, Oregon. It covers an area of ap-
proximately twelve square miles and is situated along both
the Willamette and McKenzie Rivers.

The Willamalane Park and Recreation District is gov-
erned by a policy-making board composed of five directors
who are elected for three-year terms by the residents of the
district. The board is responsible to establish the policies of
district operation, which are administered by the superin-
tendent, who is professionally trained and experienced in
the park and recreation field. He, in turn, hires a qualified
staff to perform the necessary district functions.

The district operates on a separate tax base, independent
of city, county, or school district. A tax millage is assessed
upon the pr0perty owners within the district. (Park and
recreation districts are authorized to levy up to ten mills,
exclusive of any levy for the payment of bond principal and
interest.) This levy provides a major portion (approxi-

 

MR. ARTZ is superintendent of the Willamalane Park and
Recreation District in Springfield, Oregon, and a member
of the National Recreation Association Board of Trustees.

An article by Mr. Artz, “A Swim Pool Dons a Winter Coat”,
appeared in American City, August 1964.

NOVEMBER, 1964

A step-by—step account of accomplishment
leading to a successful department structure

mately sixty percent) of the money needed to operate the
district. The remainder of the budget is derived from cash
reserves (approximately twenty percent) and fees and
charges (approximately twenty percent). Participants living
outside the district are assessed an out-of—district or non-
district fee, which is a higher rate, for all activities. This
fee is charged in lieu of taxes because these people do not
contribute to the financial support of the district through
taxes as district residents do.

The steady growth of the department is shown in the year-
by-year development that follows:

Oregon’s Williamlane Park and Recrea-
tion District was organized at the general
election with a policy-making three-mem-
ber board of directors elected by a vote of all district resi-

dents. Park district boundaries included three school
districts.

1944

A survey to determine park district needs
was completed in March by the Recreation
Division, Office of Community War Serv-
ices, Federal Security Agency. Recommendations were for
a major park area centrally located, a neighborhood park
to serve one of these areas, a place to swim, and a build-
ing to be used for recreation at all times. Walter Hansen was
hired as first superintendent. First annual budget included:

1945

Operation and maintenance .................. .. $13,668.00
Reserve for capital outlay ...................... .. 11,332.00
Total budget ............................................ .. $25,000.00

An amendment to the park and recreation
district law permitted the district to issue
bonds for capital improvements, with the
authorization by voters of the district.

1946

Difficulty of three board members being
available for meetings necessitated in-
creasing the board of directors from three
to five members by vote of district residents. Mrs. Irene
Squires became the second superintendent.

Fifteen acres in the center of the district (later named

Willamalane Park) was purchased with the aid of a $25,000

gift from the Booth-Kelly Lumber Company. Four acres of
land was purchased in the Glenwood area (later named

1947

James Park). Both pieces were immediately adjacent to
school property for maximum public use.

Residents of the district approved a $285,-
000 bond issue for construction of a com-

1948

bination pool and community center and
park acquisition and development. The bond issue was chal-

443

lenged by a Portland attorney on grounds that the district
not legally established.

Annually budgeted funds and a $25,000
gift from Booth-Kelly Lumber Company
were used for basic development of Willa-

malane Park: grading, drainage, play equipment, fencing
and tennis courts.

I949

Validity of the bond issue was upheld by
Oregon State Supreme Court. Bonds were
sold to the First National Bank of Oregon.
Plans were revised to increase the size of the swimming pool
after visiting pools which had been constructed while the
district was waiting supreme court action and learning of
problems which developed in other pools.

An unfinished Memorial Building was offered to the dis-
trict by the Veterans’ Memorial Association. The building
had been started in 1945, after purchase of the lot for $2,750
—appraised value in 1951 was $28,000—so this represented
a magnificent gift to the community from the owners. The
Memorial Association raised the equivalent of $50,000 in
material, services, and money, which was expended in the
building construction before it was officially deeded to the
district in 1950. This change was significant in providing
adequate facilities for the park district.

1950

Ir
p.

The Memorial Building was dedicated in
May. It crowned a six-year effort made
possible by hundreds of citizens who gave
cash, war bonds, materials, and services along with the final
contribution of the park district. A magnificent structure,
well worth a quarter million dollars but costing $130,000,
now stands as a monument to community effort as an ever-
lasting memorial to community sons who have given their
lives in the service of their country. Completion costs nearly
doubled original estimates, necessitating further capital fi-
nancing in 1952.

The swimming pool was dedicated on July 4-. It crowned
a seven-year effort. The $151,000 structure was declared
the most modern and finest heated pool in western Oregon.
The large, L-shaped, multiple-type pool with separate diving
well and wading pool consisted of ninety-four hundred
square feet.

Willamalane Park was improved with irrigation system
and lawns. It now had basic tree planting, three tennis
courts, children’s play area, wading pool, five softball fields.
The Glenwood Park and Building (later named James Park
and Community Center in honor of a board member) was
completed with lawns, ballfield, play equipment.

1951

A $72,000 bond issue was passed after two
failures, to complete financial obligations
incurred by district construction. Third
superintendent, Clayton Anderson, was hired. The Willa-
malane Recreation Council was established, composed of

1952

representatives of all community organizations. This acts
in an advisory and (communication) capacity to the board
of directors and superintendent. Many new program activi-
ties were initiated.

444

,x.

 

A game of lummi sticks on one of the Willanzalane District
playgrounds. The district constantly evaluates its programs.

The Golden Age Club established with 120
lively, interested members. James Park
and Building dedicated. The Softball As-
sociation provided lights on the Number One Field at Willa-
malane Park. The Pacific Power & Light Company helped
out by underwriting the entire project. The Willamalane
Players (dramatics club) was organized.

1953-5

Park district annexed area on the north
by vote of district residents. Richard
Boehm, a resident of newly annexed area,
gave the district a one-acre park site named Robin Park.

The Square Dance Club was established.

1956

Board of directors adopted “Aims and
Objectives of District,” a fourteen-page
booklet. The More Beautiful Springfield
Committee was established to plan beautification by street
tree planting. Initial planting totalled 729 trees. Plan cov-
ered a continuous year-by-year project.

Island Park (fifteen acres) was acquired from the State
Highway Commission. This park which lies along the river,
to be developed principally as a natural, picnic facility. An
indoor rifle range was constructed in old warehouse build-

1957

ing.

The Willamalane “symbol of service” was adopted: a
district crest to be associated with all district functions.
The Willamalane Art League was organized.

A new tax base was established on the
third attempt by a 3-1 vote of the citizens.
This election was particularly significant
because it placed the district on a firm financial status for
years to come( Annexation increased the district nearly
twenty percent—to the west and north of present district
boundaries—by a popular vote. This increased population
of district by four thousand.

The Lions Club of Springfield and Glenwood began de-
velopment of Island Park. Game Bird Park (two acres) in
the newly annexed area was acquired by county dedication.
Kelly Butte viewsite (five acres) was given to district by
the city of Springfield. New neighborhood park (seven
acres) in the urban renewal area was acquired from the

1958

RECREATION

Urban Renewal Authority. Track and ski club activities
were added to program. The Paddlewheels (swim team

parents) were organized to boost swimming.

Play sculptures were built for Willama-
lane Park by University of Oregon archi-
tecture students. Development at Game
Bird and James Parks included sprinkling systems, fences,
backstops.

1959

Robert Artz became fourth superintend-

1960 ent. A survey of district residents was

conducted by Willamalane Recreation

Council to help determine policies, programs, facilities, and
other needs.

A District Provisions and Policy Manual was established.
This includes sections on Authority to Operate; Provisions
Governing Functions of the Willamalane Park and Recrea-
tion District; Provisions Governing Administrative Organ-
ization; and all established policies.

A personnel system was established including testing and
evaluation methods, personnel manuals, and orientation
pr0gram. A cost-accounting budget system was established
with a new work program-type budget and other modern
budgetary controls to provide more services to more resi-
dents for less expense.

A fees-and charges 'system was established for both in-
district and out-of-district (in lieu of taxes) residents. Other
budget improvement included elimination of all contractual
programs and increase of pool fees to reduce high subsidy.
A detailed record system was established. From these rec-
ords over-all programs to be evaluated, weak points or flaws
corrected, and operational success determined. A leadership-
training program was established.

A new tot-lot was developed at James Park. District fa-
cilities were given a new look. All facilities were painted
and improved, using district symbol and color. Attractive
access signs to designate park facilities were installed at
twenty-two locations.

Willamalane’s indoor and outdoor program was expanded
to include separate junior-high and senior-high canteen pro-
grams organized with teen and adult council governing
bodies. Weekend programs were scheduled throughout the
year. Willamalane’s program was decentralized to provide
greater service to all neighborhood segments. Indoor pro-
grams were conducted in nine school and park facilities
throughout district and nine full-time staffed playgrounds
were conducted.

Menlo Park (two acres) was donated by subdivider to
serve northwest district neighborhood area in Menlo Park
subdivision. The park had been partially developed. Wil-
lamette Heights Park (four acres) was donated by city of
Springfield. This was to be developed as a combination
viewsite play area.

A master park plan was deve10ped for needed facilities
and development. Willamalane received top award as out-
standing department in Oregon. Award was presented by
Oregon State Health, Physical Education and Recreation
Association on the basis of five general areas of accomplish-

NOVEMBER, 1964

ment: program and services, organization and administra-
tion, personnel, finance, areas and facilities.

Royal Delle Park (two and a half acres)
was donated by subdivider. Millrace View-
site (less than one acre) donated by Geor-
gia Pacific Company, to be developed as historical viewsite.

After a year of negotiation the school and park boards
adopted a joint agreement pledging cooperation in the ac-
quisition, development, and use of all school and park fa-
cilities, thereby providing greater service to all district resi-
dents at less tax expense. Aldridge School purchased thir-
teen acres adjacent to district site for joint school-park de-
velopment to serve southeast section.

The district’s full-time staff was expanded to include an
assistant superintendent, two recreation leaders, park main-
tenance man, bringing full-time staff to total of eleven. The
master park plan was officially adopted by the board of
directors.

A third bond issue of $285,000 was approved by voters
and the first capital improvement serial levy ($300,000—
ten year) was approved by voters. Validity of the election
was challenged and delayed selling of bonds and develop-
ment of facilities. The election was later validated by Lane
County Circuit Court and New York State bonding firm
opinions. Bonds were sold in December to the First Na-
tional Bank of Oregon for the low average interest rate of
3.676 percent.

A park site (four acres) was purchased in eastern area,
the first park area in the eastern area, to be developed as
neighborhood-type park facility. Another park site (four
acres) was purchased with Page School, to be developed
as oint school-park neighborhood-type facility and another
park site (seven and a half acres) was purchased with Har-
low Road School to be developed as oint school-park com-
munity facility to serve northwest area.

1961

A year of development, improvement, site
acquisition and program expansion saw
the development of Meadow Park, a new
seven-acre park made possible through the Urban Renewal
Program; North 35th Street Park, a new four-acre park,
the first for the eastern section of the district; Royal Delle
Park, a new‘2.7-acre park, serving a northern neighborhood
section; and Menlo Park, two acres serving a northwest
neighborhood section. The dangerous sewage-filled McKen-
zie Ditch running through Willamalane Park was covered,
adding two more acres for park use. Conversion of the ex-
isting multiple swim pool to a combination indoor-out-door
facility for year-round use began. This was one of the
major items planned from the bond issue in July 1961.
The Menlo Park open shelter was built, the first neighbor-
hood shelter of many in the planning stages.

A new bid policy, which included greater advantages for
local firms in all district bid considerations, was adopted by
the Board of Directors. School District-City-Par‘k District
cooperation was enhanced with greater emphasis on coordi-

1962

nation, joint planning, development, and use.

A thorough salary study resulted in the establishment of
Continued on Page 464

445

Laurence S. Rockefeller

THIS IS A VITAL
time for con-
servation and rec-
reation in this coun-
try. It is a time
when we are decid-
ing what kind of
America we are go-
ing to build over the next decades. It is
a time when we are deciding whether
our affluence will create only bigness or
whether it will create greatness as well.
These decisions will shape our most im-
portant legacy to our children and
grandchildren—the quality of the en-
vironment we pass on to them.

Never before have the opportunities
been so great. The Congress of the
United States has enacted the most sig-
nificant conservation and recreation
laws since Theodore Roosevelt’s time.
The Land and Water Conservation
Fund, the Wilderness Bill, the new Bu-
reau of Outdoor Recreation, and the
first new national parks in a decade——
these truly offer a new horizon both for
conservation and outdoor recreation.
States across the country have passed
bond issues and put through new pro-
grams to build more parks, acquire
more open spaces, and develop more
recreation opportunities.

Perhaps most important of all, there
is a new awareness in the land. The
voters in this country are making it
clear that they do not want an ugly
America. They want, and they are will-
ing to pay for, a beautiful America—
an America with opportunities for pro-
ductive and pleasant use of increased

 

 

Mn. ROCKEFELLER is Chairman of the
New York State Council of Parks and
served as Chairman of the Out-
door Recreation Resources Commission
f0RRRC). This material is taken from
.a speech given at the Annual Meeting of

the National Conference on State Parks
in Morristown, New Jersey.

446

PLATFORM for
CONSERVATION and

leisure. However, this success is not an
end; it is only a beginning. These vic-
tories are not the conclusion of a cru-
sade, but only the launching. The park,
recreation, and conservation profes-
sional has been given new and powerful
tools, but with these tools come a heavy
load and a mighty challenge.

Let it be noted that there are those
who question whether park, recreation,
and conservation people can do the job.
They say we are bureaucratic and ineffi-
cient. We’ve been described as cold to
new ideas, as narrow and parochial, and
we’ve been charged as being more in-
terested in preserving resources than
with serving people. There may be some
truth in these charges, even though ex-
aggerated; but the fact that there is
doubt in our capability is a reality-—
and we must overcome that doubt. If
we do not, the public will become dis-
satisfied, political support will wane,
and this great chance will slip from our
hands. We will have failed, but, much
more importantly, this chance to shape
America’s future growth will be lost.

Therefore, for your consideration and
for the consideration of others, I would
like to propose a program of action for
park people, for recreation people, and
for conservation people. Call it a plat-
form, if you will.

AS A FIRST and fundamental plank,
let us affirm that we are concerned
with the full range of both natural and
man-made beauty in America. We who
share this concern have diverse respon-
sibilities and interests—for city and
county parks and playgrounds, for state
and national parks, for forests, for fish
and wildlife. The total effect of our effort
is a concern for the environment. Our
job is to see that this country will be a
better and healthier place to live and
labor and enjoy the fruits of labor.
We must provide good parks and
good playgrounds, but we also must

provide a public conscience for the land
and the water. We must be the advocate
in the public forum for health and beau-
ty wherever they are an issue. And they
are at issue in how we plan our cities,
how we build our roads, how we use
our streams and rivers, how we use our
air. Indeed, they are at issue in almost
the full range of human activity. The
ultimate net effect of our diverse con-
cerns should be a more beautiful, a
more pleasant, a better America.

Second, this concern for the kind of
country we are building must have a
greater voice in the councils of the fed-
eral government. The Bureau of Out-
door Recreation is charged with coor-
dinating the score of federal agencies
involved in recreation, but perhaps that
is not enough. Certainly, the implicit
responsibility of the bureau for the full
range of environment should be made
explicit. Perhaps its name should be
changed to reflect more than outdoor
recreation. And it may be that its status
within the Department of the Interior is
not the most forceful place for it.

The Recreation Advisory Council of
cabinet officers with some responsibility
for outdoor recreation provides a de-
gree of government wide supervision.
It could do more. Perhaps it could be-
come that one place in government
where conservation, recreation, and
natural beauty are considered across the
full range of federal activity. The BOR
might serve directly as a secretariat to
the council.

Another move which would help
is the appointment of an Advisory Com-
mittee to the Recreation Council. This
committee might be made up of mem-
bers of Congress and informed citizens
representing a diversity of interests.

THIRD, we should affirm that the states
must play a key role in this effort.

They are ideally situated for it. They

RECREATION

OUTDOOR RECREATION

are close enough to the scene to take
account of sectional differences, and
they are strong enough to carry forward
effective prOgrams. The states must
play the pivotal role of bringing to-
gether the efforts of the federal govern-
ment on one hand and the local units
of government on the other.

Unlike some federal grant-in-aid pro-
grams, the Land and Water Act pro—
vides that grants are made through the
states. If the cities and counties want
federal money they must go to their
state capital to get it. This means that
the states must work well with the fed-
eral government, and. that they must
work well with local governments.

We must COOperate closely with the
Bureau of Outdoor Recreation. Its mis-
sion of coordinating the various federal
programs, the various levels of govern-
ment, and the private sector is vital.
From it a cooperative nationwide effort
must evolve.

The other half of the state job is the

relationship with the local units of gov-
ernment. In too many cases state pro-
grams are administered as if local gov-
ernments did not exist. They do exist,
and they must be very much a part of
these programs. Counties, for instance,
are becoming increasingly active.

The local governments have to be
part of the statewide planning effort.
They should be encouraged to become
full partners. States must be more than
a pipeline for federal money. They
should offer planning and technical and,
in many cases, financial assistance to
local governments.

Fourth, we must put our state admin-
istrative machinery in order to do the
job. In many states, the park, recrea-
tion, forest, and fish and game, high-
way, and other agencies are competing
with each other; or even worse, they are
ignoring each other.

One of the strongest recommenda-

NOVEMBER, 1964

We have received a mandate to preserve the beauties of our country.

tions of the Outdoor Recreation Re-
sources Review Commission urged each
state to establish a government focal
point for outdoor recreation. This is
even more crucial if we are to under-
take a concern for the entire environ-
ment. '

The Land and Water Conservation
Fund Act (S. 4——Public Law 88-577)

gives special urgency and incentive to
comprehensive, coordinated planning.
The act requires a comprehensive state-
wide plan. We should see this require-
ment not as red tape, not as ‘a barrier
between ourselves and some attractive
federal money, but as the finest oppor-
tunity we have ever had to build well
for the long haul.

 

FIFTH, I suggest that we must evolve
an entirely new and very much
more comprehensive concept of access
to outdoor opportunities. What is in-
volved here is more than roads and traf-
fic control, although physical access is
important, but we must think of access
in an even broader term.

We should make it our responsibility
to see that every segment of our society
—whether they be black or white, rich
or poor—has an opportunity to use
public facilities. We share a continuing
responsibility to encourage apprecia-
tion of quality—quality in the environ-
ment and in the uses we make of it. For
millions who have no tradition of out-
door experience, there is need for basic
programs to teach the skills and convey
the love of the land which combine to
make outdoor recreation meaningful.

In many cases this boils down to pro-
vision for those who do not own an
automobile. Our park systems tend to
be predicated upon automobile owner-
ship—and even in this afiiuent society
there are many who do not have one
available to them.

Access also means actively encourag-
ing people to use all parts of our out-
door areas. It is sometimes easiest to
control people in tight perimeters, but
we must encourage them into the re-
mote and the more inspiring areas away
from the parking lots and snack bars.

This means imaginative use of edu-
cational devices and trail markers. It
means good personnel contact with the
public. It means good maintenance.

Sixth, we must strive for a balance
of outdoor opportunities for the public.
This balance consists of a mixture of
opportunities of all kinds—from high
density urban areas to the remote wil-
derness.

For too long, conservationists have
been squabbling about doctrine—where
roads should be allowed and where they
should not; where hunters can come in
and where they can’t; and so on. These
battles have been fought to the point of
tedium at a thousand meetings and
conferences across the land.

The time has come to stop quibbling.
Let us agree that we must make provi-
sion for all kinds of use—and create a
planned balance.

An important part of this issue is
development. As pressures increase on

4'13

outdoor areas, there will he need for
more development, for development in-
creases capacity to serve people. Where
and how this development takes place
should be part of a well-thought-out
balance of opportunities. The obvious
tool for doing this is the statewide rec-
reation plan required under the Land
and Water grants. If these plans are
well drawn, provision can be made for
all uses.

The forum for debate can be the
planning agency—not the hotel lobbies
and the fish and game columns in the
daily press. This is very much easier
said than done, but this is very much
part of our challenge—*to make some
tough decisions that will stick. And the
Land and Water grants offer us the 0p-

portunity to make them under the pres-
sure of necessity.

SEVENTH, we must give far greater
emphasis to conservation in our
cities and suburbs. Today, this is the
crucial arena for conservation and rec-
reation. Here is where the people are.
At least two-thirds of the population live
in urban surroundings.

Our park work—particularly at the
state and national level—has had a
rural orientation in the past. We must
reapportion our efforts to provide out-
door opportunities for city people.
Part of this can be done by greater co-
operation with local government for
traditional park programs, but we must
also try to build conservation and rec-
reation into the environment as we cre-
ate roads and houses. The cluster con-
cept which calls for tighter development
patterns and dedication of the land thus
saved to open space is a promising new
idea which is catching on; and the idea
of tying open space together with
stream networks and pathways can pro-
vide a whole new look to our suburbs.

Certainly, federal loan regulations
and local zoning ordinances should en-
courage well-planned developments 'of
this kind. A review of the relationship
between the open space program of the
Urban Renewal Administration and the
new Land and Water Act will provide
opportunities for more help for the ur-
ban areas.

Eighth, let us not be afraid to use new
devices or imaginative old ones. Out-
right acquisition of land may not al-

ways be the only answer. Indeed, in
some cases, it may not be the best one.

Scenic easements, purchase of rights
of way, tax abatement programs, hunt-
ing and fishing rights, and sale lease-
back arrangements offer an array of
tools we should use. Sometimes bureau-
cratic inertia has blinded us to these op-
portunities because they seemed like too
much trouble or simply because they
had never been used before. However,
these less-than-fee acquisitions can of-
ten achieve the public goal at less cost
and with less disruption to other uses
than traditional acquisition.

Ninth, we must strengthen the private
conservation and recreation organiza-
tions. There are over a thousand of
them, but there is duplication, overlap-
ping, and inefficiency. Too much time is
spent in jockeying for position or mail-
ing each other literature. Consolidation
and greater cooperative efforts by priv-
ate organizations could and should pro-
vide a strong source of continuing sup-
port for our mutual goals.

Tenth, we must maintain a bipartisan
approach. Conservation has tradition-
ally been above partisanship. We have
had, and do have, great leaders and
friends in both parties. Let us keep it
that way. However, we must not consid-
er ourselves above politics. Almost every
goal we seek requires government ac-
tion, and we must be a part of the polit-
ical process to get that action. At the
same time, we must maintain .our roots
in both great political parties and work
to strengthen them where we and they
are weak. We will lose much of our vast
reservoir of public good will if we
should ever be so foolish as to identify
ourselves with only one party.

HIS PLATFORM is an ambitious 'one.

It is a big job. It will require

great effort, great patience, and consid-

erable wisdom. It will not be completed

in a year or a decade, but it must be a
continuing responsibility.

So let us rededicate ourselves to our
work. Let us so perform that future
generations will look back and say of
us: These men saw the vision of not only
a strong America, not only a prosperous
America, but a beautiful America as

well. #

0 Provisions of the Land and Water
Conservation Fund Act are given on
the next poge.—Ed.

RECREATION

Land and Water

Conservation Fund

Questions and Answers for States and Their Political Subdivisions

Q. Who may receive Land and Water Conservation
Fund money?

A. States and certain federal agencies named in the Land
and Water Conservation Fund legislation (S. 4-Public Law
88-577). The states may transfer money to their political
subdivisions.

Q. May private individuals wishing to install out-
door recreation enterprises or organizations such as
the Boy Scouts qualify for money from this fund?
A. No. Money in the Land and Water Conservation Fund is
available only for outdoor recreation needs of public agen-
cies. Information on financial and technical assistance avail-
able for private individuals and organizations under other
programs is available in the booklet Federal Assistance in
Outdoor Recreation, available at Bureau of Outdoor Recrea-
tion regional offices.

Q. On what basis is_ Land and Water Conservation
Fund money available to states?

A. States must match federal grants-in-aid available under
the program on a fifty-fifty basis.

Q. For what purposes may states receive grants-in-
aid under this program?

A. For three purposes: (1) for preparation of a compre-
hensive statewide outdoor recreation plan and its mainte-
nance; (2) for acquisition of needed public recreation land
and water areas or interests therein; and (3) for develop-
~ ment of public recreation areas and facilities.

Q. What are the primary ingredients of a compre-
hensive statewide outdoor recreation plan?
A. Such a plan should inventory public and private, state,

 

NOVEMBER, 1964

and local, outdoor recreation resources. It should include an
estimate of demand for outdoor recreation. It should evalu-
ate future outdoor recreation needs in the state and should
be subject to periodic updating. It should set forth a pro-
gram designed to meet present and future demand for out-
door recreation opportunities throughout the state. This
should take into account programs and plans both of the
state government and its political subdivisions, as well as
the private sector.

Q. Who is responsible for developing a state’s com-
prehensive outdoor recreation plan?
A. The responsible ofhcial or agency in each state is desig-
nated either by the governor or by state law.

Q. How do states qualify for planning grants-in-aid
under the Land and Water Conservation Fund pro-
gram?

A. Secretarial regulations and guidelines have not been
fully developed but it is expected that states will submit a
planning project proposal to the appropriate regional office
of the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation for approval. The pro-
posal must include a statement that the state has available a
given amount of its own planning money which it will use to
match available federal dollars.

Q. How do states qualify for acquisition and devel-
opment grants-in-aid under the Land and Water Con-
servation Fund program?

A. They first submit a comprehensive statewide outdoor rec-
reation plan to the Secretary of the Interior and obtain his
certification that it is adequate to the state’s long-term needs.
The Secretary’s regulations are expected to provide for the
states to submit acquisition and development project pro-
posals to the appropriate Bureau of Outdoor Recreation
regional office for approval. The proposals must include
among other things a statement that the state has available
a given amount of project money which it will use to match
federal grants-in-aid. Forms for proposals will be available
from the regional offices of the Bureau of Outdoor Recrea-

tion.

Q. How may counties, cities, soil conservation dis-
tricts, and other political subdivisions of state gov-
ernment qualify for grants-in-aid under this pro-
gram?

A. Local public projects which are in accord with a state’s
comprehensive outdoor recreation plan may receive federal

President Johnson signs the Land and Water Conservation
Fund Bill (H.R. 3346) and the Wilderness Bill (3.4) and

hands a souvenir pen to Secretary of the Interior Udall.

449

_-'-—-——-——

v—u-r-

giants-in-aid through the state agency designated to receive
such federal funds. To do so, the state agency concerned
must file a project proposal with the appropriate Bureau of
Outdoor Recreation regional 03306 for approval. The pro-
posal must certify that a certain amount of money is avail-
able to match federal grants-in-aid.

May a political subdivision of a state apply directly to
the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation for grants-in-aid
under the Land and Water Conservation Fund pro-
gram?

A. No. A political subdivision of a state may receive money
from the fund only through the agency designated for such
purposes by the governor or by state law. Likewise, other
state agencies should apply through the state’s designated
point of contact. not directly to the Bureau of Outdoor Rec-
reation.

Q. When does the Land and Water Conservation
Fund program begin?

A. The act becomes effective on January 1, 1965. Money
starts accumulating in the fund on that date. No payment
may be made from it for costs or obligations incurred or
services rendered prior to the effective date of the legisla-
tion establishing the fund.

Q. How much' money will be in the fund each year?
A. Preliminary estimates anticipate that the fund will aver-
age about $180,000,000 per year for its first ten years. How-
ever, this level is not expected to be reached for a year or
two after effective date of the act.

Q. How does this become available for state and fed-
eral recreation programs?

A. Annually, the Congress will appropriate all or part of
the money which has accumulated in the fund, following
standard budget procedures.

Q. How much of the money appropriated from the
fund by the Congress will be available to the states
and their political subdivisions?

A. ["nless the Congress provides to the contrary, sixty per-
cent will go to the states in any given year. The President
during the first five years may adjust such percentage by as
much as fifteen percent in either direction.

Q. How is the state’s share of the money appropri-
ated from the fund allocated? '*

A. Two-fifths of all the money appropriated by the Congress

I

SW cmmoucron LOCKS

will be divided equally among the fifty states. The remain-
ing three-fifths will be available to the states, the District of
Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, and Amer-
ican Samoa, according to need, as determined by the Secre-
tary of the Interior. Legislation establishing the program
guides him in determining individual state needs. No state

may receive any of its share unless it matches the federal
grants-in-aid dollar for dollar.

Q. How long is money in the fund available to the
states and for federal recreation purposes?

A. Moneys appropriated from the Land and Water Con-
servation Fund and allocated to a state will be redistributed
among other states if not matched and used within two years
following the year in which it was made available. Money
lying in the fund which has not been appropriated by the
Congress for state and federal use by the end of two full
fiscal years following the year in which it was credited to the
fund will be taken out of the fund and placed in miscel-
laneous receipts of the Treasury. It will no longer be avail-
able for Land and Water Conservation Fund program pur-
poses.

Q. To what state official or agency will federal pay-
ments for approved Land and Water Conservation
Fund projects he made?

A. To the governor or to an ofiicial or agency designated by
the governor or state law.

Q. Since proceeds from sale of surplus federal real
property now will go into the Land and Water Con-
servation Fund, will present surplus property dis-
posal procedures be changed?

A. No. The Land and Water Conservation Fund program
does not change any existing procedures or purposes for
which federal surplus real property may be disposed. It
simply allocates net proceeds from sale of such lands to the
Land and Water Conservation Fund.

Q. Do states or their political subdivisions have to
charge entrance or admission charges at recreation
areas established with money from the Land and
Water Conservation Fund?

A. No. Their policies on fees and charges are their own
responsibility. They may charge fees or not charge fees as
they see fit.

“These new concepts in coin-operated locks set standards by which
all other locks will be measured for years to come."

They are so revolutionary new in engineering concept, even the expert
copiers have not yet found a way to copy them.

They are the authoritative way to turn your checking loss operation
into a profitable one. Write today. ..

Sentinel, Finest Name in the World of Lockers, Loudonville, Ohio.

15” When writing to our adu‘rtiaers pleusr llll'illlun ltunrmnom.

 

RECREATION

 

Opera, or lyric drama, is composed of a number of arts
and is undoubtedly one of the most remarkable creations
of western civilization. It is contrary to the principles

of everyday life, but not to the principles of art. For this
reason it possesses an unquenchable vitality which

has enabled it triumphantly to surmount crisis after crisis.

TAKEN FROM:

1960 Report to John F. Kennedy Center
for the Performing Arts.

 

OPERA

IS
RECREATION

PERA IS RECREATION when it be-
0 comes part of the daily life
experiences of many persons——

when millions of people enjoy Menotti’s
Amahl and the Night Visitor at Christ-
mas time on TV and perform it locally
in hundreds of places; when Mozart’s
Cosi Fan Tutte or Kurt Weill’s Three-
Penny Opera are done by aspiring sing-
ers and musicians in scores of different
communities; and when hundreds of
thousands of people attend opera per-
formances in parks during the summer.
The recent Ford Foundation and other
foundation grants to professional opera
companies in various cities throughout
the nation will enlarge and strengthen
the place of opera in American musical
life. National interest in opera will be
further developed when the John F.
Kennedy Center for the Performing
Arts in Washington, DC. becomes oper-

ative in this field. The National Recre-
ation Association, an afliliate of the
Kennedy Center, believes that a strong
grass-roots program of opera will not
only benefit from opera conducted at
the national level, but will be in a posi-
tion to contribute to it.

Opera is especially recreational when
it is a thriving outgrowth of amateur
interest and effort in a community. Re-
cent estimates indicate that it is pro-
duced to a greater or lesser extent in
more than six hundred localities
throughout the United States.

Opera is any musical drama to be
performed almost entirely in song, by
singers, dancers, and instrumentalists.
Works of such varying nature, there-

fore, as Menotti’s Amahl and the Night
Visitors, Gilbert and Sullivan’s H .M .S.
Pinafore, Hindemith’s children’s opera
Let’s Build a Town, Bernstein’s Trouble

A modern classic, Amahl and the Night Visitors, performed by the New Orleans Recreation Department Opera Workshop.

 

in. Tahiti, Rodgers and Hammerstein’s
Carousel, Bach’s Cajfee Cantata, Gersh-
win’s Porgy and Bess are considered as
operas regardless of their original ap-
pellation. Opera, as a general term, em-
braces all ballad operas, folk operas,
light operas, Operettas, lyric dramas,
music dramas, musical comedies, comic
operas, puppet operas, serious operas,
grand operas, chamber operas, and other
related forms.

Opera has taken a firm foothold in
at least thirty of the nation’s public
recreation agency programs; occupies
an occasional place in the programs of
an indeterminate number of others; and
generally holds promise of expansion as
a form of community recreation for the
future. A brief rundown of several ex-
amples will show the variety of ways in
which recreation agencies Sponsor opera
programs.

0 Mount Vernon, New York, co-spon-
sors opera programs.

0 Oglebay Institute in Wheeling, West
Virginia, sponsors an advanced opera
workshop, opera performances, recitals
and lectures.

0 Philadelphia assists two opera com-
panies and produces opera in its sum-
mer program.

0 Allentown, Pennsylvania, has the
oldest municipal light opera company
in the United States.

a New Orleans, one of the most active
and exciting examples, produces sev-
eral operas each year as part of its
Cultural Division program.

0 Arlington, Virginia, co-sponsors an
opera theater and its productions.

0 Hollywood, Florida, conducts an
opera workshop and sponsors produc-
tions, recitals, and lectures.

0 Houston, for many years, has pre-
pared and produced light and serious
opera as part of its music program.

0 Cleveland conducts Opera workshOp
activities and performances in several
centers.

0 Portland, Oregon, sponsors, co-spon-

sors, and produces opera through the
Theatre Arts Opera Association and

Theatre Workshops.

0 Burbank, California, sponsors the
Burbank Civic Light Opera Company.

0 Baltimore provides instruction in
opera composition and appreciation.

o Bridcburg Park, California, arranges

for attendance at opera performances.

0 Pittsburgh sponsors a light opera
company.

0 Louisville, Kentucky, presents light
opera through its Youth Theatre.

0 Fontana, California, produces oper-
ettas for its children’s youth program.

0 Los Angeles produces opera for
adults and operettas for children and
youth.

0 Torrance, California, supports a
local choral group that stages musicals
and operas.

o Westchester County, New York, pre-

sents opera in concert form and in full
production.

0 Delegates to the 1961 National Rec-
reation Congress in Detroit will long
remember the wonderful performance
of Carousel at the Ford Auditorium by
members of the Detroit Civic Center
Chorus and Civic Center Children’s
Chorus under auspices of the Detroit
Department of Parks and Recreation.

Details provided by local recreation
executives concerning a few of the fore-
going examples give assurance that
opera definitely has its place in public
recreation programs and that it offers
many possibilities of becoming more
widespread.

Oglebay Institute sponsors an inten-
sive summer workshOp each year under
the direction of Boris Goldoski, the
father of the opera workshop. About
forty highly talented singers come to-
gether primarily for training. However,
during the workshop training period, an
opera is produced, lectures and recitals
are given. The 1963 workshop program
included a performance of Mozart’s
Marriage of Figaro at the Oglebay Park
Amphitheatre, lecturers in the Carriage
House on the “Romance of Opera,”
“You’d Like Opera, If—,” “Opera To-
day,” and a series of student recitals at
the Children’s Center and Wilson Lodge
of Oglebay Park. Stanley Coulling,
executive director of Oglebay Institute,
operates the workshop, on a largely self-
supporting basis, for the purpose of
developing interest in opera throughout
the Ohio Valley region.

OPERA THEATER

OPERA IS FOR EVERYBODY in the view
of the Arlington, Virginia, Depart-
ment of Recreation and Parks. Since

1961, the Arlington Opera Thea-

tre has been entertaining area music
lovers with such classics as The Barber
of Seville and Cosi Fan Tutte performed
by skilled local musicians and vocalists.
With a schedule of three performances
a year, the Opera Theatre pulls in an
audience from the District of Columbia
and Maryland as well as Virginia, and
is beginning to play to full houses.

Organization. Opera Theatre activi-
ties are controlled by a board of seven-
teen to twenty directors who serve three-
year staggered terms. The recreation
department is represented on the board
by two members, both recommended by
the department director, with full voting
privileges. One department representa-
tive is, of course, the music supervisor.
According to the constitution, as least
three-fifths of the members must be resi-
dents of Arlington. Unless his fellow
members grant approval, no board
member is allowed to take part in any
production as a singer, orchestra mem-
ber, or designer of sets or costumes.

In cooperation with the recreation
department, the board completely man-
ages Opera Theatre and is financially ac-
countable for its productions. Through
the recreation department, the county
pays approximately half the production
expense; the remainder must come from
contributions and ticket sales.

Operation of the theater is handled
by six standing committees. Functions
of the fund-raising, publicity, ticket,
and business committees are self-ex-
planatory. The artistic committee rec-
ommends possible operas for produc-
tion, with specific consideration of cost,
technical demands (sets, costumes,
lights), available talent, and audience
appeal. The women’s committee is an
all-purpose group, ready to assist in
anything from fund-raising to teas and
receptions.

Once an opera is chosen, a production
committee is set up, headed by the pro-
ducer. In conjunction with board mem-
bers directly concerned, the producer
selects a technical director, stage direc-
tor, and costume designer, each directly
responsible to him.

Financing. The average cost of a
single production runs between $3000
and $5000, which includes a proportion
of annual staff members’ and mainte-

nance crews’ salaries. A fee for each
production is paid to the stage director,
costume designer, pattern maker, and
set designer. Some expenses are paid
for the principals in the cast and the
orchestra members. A limited amount
of paid advertising is placed. Whenever
necessary, materials for costumes and
sets are purchased. Music and royalties
run from $50 to $250 a production.

Without volunteer help, however, ex-
penses would be much higher. For ex-
ample, at least six hundred hours of
sewing is required for each production,
plus additional hours of work on sets
and pr0perties. All of the chorus mem-
bers have been volunteers, most of them
high school students. Contributions take
the form of memberships in Opera The-
atre and range from $5 to $200.

Tickets are scaled to fit the communi-
ty, and discounts are available for bene-
fits and theater parties. All seats are
reserved, and from a third to half the
house is sold out in advance. Each pro-
duction is presented three times, with
two evening performances and one Sun-
day matinee.

Financially, Opera Theatre has been
unbelievably successful, especially for
a community so close to the competition
of Washington, Baltimore, Philadel-
phia, and New York. There has been
only one financial failure. Tosca, a
tragic opera, proved as tragic at the box
office as on the stage. Board members
ascribe this to the high cost of produc-
tion, to poor reviews, and to the fact
that tragic opera, unless superbly per-
formed, just does not appeal as much
as music in a gayer mood. Production
of such operas should be postponed
until the company is well established,
board members now believe. F ortu-
nately, two successful productions
quickly pulled Opera Theatre out of its
temporary financial hole. One other
experiment, a joint production with the
Ballet Workshop, proved unpopular and
was not repeated.

How did Opera Theatre start? Actu-
ally it sprang from the foresight of a
department director convinced that cul-

tural activities are as important to rec-
reation as are playground and sports.
Even before the opera group was formed,
the department boasted three drama
groups (children, teens, and adults),

 

two barbershop choruses, and sponsor-
ship of the county symphony orchestra.
When a full-time supervisor of music
was added to the staff, Arlington Opera
Theatre was created with the enthusias-
tic help of local citizens interested in
music and cultural activities, each of
whom has received and accepted a per-
sonal invitation from the department cli-
rector to work with the new group. The
first production was ready within two
and a half months.

With each successive production
drawing bigger advance ticket sales and
larger audiences, the directors of the
Opera Theatre are confident that within
a few years the theater will be complete-
ly self-supporting. Right now, they are
abundantly proving that opera does
have popular appeal, because it offers
something for everyone.

OPERA WORKSHOP

THE New Orleans Recreation Depart-

ment Opera Workshop is believed
to be the only department in the coun-
try that handles the rugged job of teach-
ing non-professionals whole operas.
That is the kind of training that makes
for a well-rounded repertoire and a
successful opera singer, according to
Arthur Cosenza, NORD opera work-
shop director. It was under Mr. Cosen-
za’s leadership that the workshop first
began to teach whole operas. Mr. Co-
senza is well qualified since he stages
operas for the New Orleans Opera
House Association and recently re-
turned from a three-month study in the
opera centers of Europe. The success
of the program can partly be measured
by the fact that already many of the
workshop’s featured artists have achiev-
ed national prominence.

Before the NORD Opera Workshop
began, many an aspiring singer had to
spend long costly months or perhaps
years of intensive training in New York
or Europe. This was an expensive prop-
osition. Once in New York or Europe,
the student had to go to an operatic
coach to learn the music and text of
a number of roles. Later he would either
go to a stage director or an opera work-
shop for the staging. In many instances,
after all of this training, he would still
not have had the chance to work his
particular role with other voices until

 

-. * OPERA BALL; 1"
£7“ aurahzz new: was?” or sacs: " ar .9; as:
r Ar .5?“ 50496! new: “WW” air .1 awn/gr
‘Ff5H/OA/ axe»! I§60‘ M17?! #6452: or Jam-CM” $.72 '
magic-smart”: CHO
This striking program cover
was designed for a production of

the Portland, Oregon,
Theatre Arts Opera Association.

lus acceptance by some opera company.

Through the NORD Opera Work-
shop, this hard road to the operatic
stage has been considerably shortened.
The singer not only learns the text of
a role, but he learns staging and gen-
eral stage deportment. Most important
of all, he is given a chance to sing the
complete opera, with costumes and
scenery, before an audience. All this
training is offered free of charge. It is
all part of the vast NORD program
which is supported by tax funds.

All NORD operas are completely
costumed by NORD’S costume division.
Scenery for all NORD operas is made
by NORD’s art department. NORD
stages three to five operas a year and
one or more recitals. In addition,
NORD’S singers make occasional spe-
cial appearances for conventions, meet-
ings and other gatherings. Among the
many operas NORD has presented are
Suor Angelica, Gianni Schicchi, Rig-

oletto, The Telephone, Il Tabarro,
Ath and the Night Visitors, La
Boheme, and Tosca.

History. The NORD Theatre started
in May, 1961. A little auditorium which
seats approximately eighty pe0ple be-
came the stomping grounds of the new-

1) formed group. The theater building
is located in the heart of the business
district and in one of the oldest and
most historical buildings in the Cres-
cent City—-—~Gallier Hall. It was origin-
ally the city hall and was built in the
1850’s.

Ty Tracy, supervisor of dramatic
activities for the department, was ap-
pointed director of the NORD Theatre.
Its iirst effort was the Roaring Twenties
musical Good News. It was such a suc-
cess that the Standing Room Only sign
went up for fourteen performances. The
show was “double-cast” because of the
heavy turnout for tryouts. This was the
first time in New Orleans that a com-
munity theater director paced two casts
in rehearsal and came up with top per-
formances by all. Kiss Me Kate was the
third production and second musical.
NORD’s costume division and art de-
partment did an outstanding job on this
Cole Porter musical.

The musical Li’l Abner marked the
theater’s first anniversary. A week of
tryouts had to be set in order to accom-
modate the overflow crowds wanting to
audition. When casting was finally fin-
ished, the program read like a page
from the telephone directory. Some

sixty-live people sang and danced in

Li’l Abner.

At this time, NORD inaugurated the
NORD award of the year for outstand-
ing dramatic achievement. One actor
and one actress were selected from each
play, during the period of one year, and
two were selected at the end of the year
from this group to receive the awards.

The late executive assistant director
of NORD, G. Gernon Brown, was en-
thusiastic about the opera program, and
felt that it carried on New Orleans tra-
dition of opera beginning at the time
when Louisiana was part of Napoleon’s
France.

MUNICIPAL OPERA COMPANY

THE Allentown Municipal Opera
Company, sponsored by the Allen-
town, Pennsylvania, Recreation Depart-
ment, was organized in 1934. It origi-
nated as a male chorus in 1928, became
a choral society in 1933, and evolved
as an opera company in 1934. It is the
sixth oldest organized opera company
in the United States and the oldest to
be sponsored by a recreation depart-
ment (according to the old files and
histories of the opera company).
The opera company was self-sustain-

 

r .

ing until 1962 when the city of Allen-
town included $1,000 in its budget to
help defray the salaries of its musical
and dramatic directors. In 1963, the
city also offered a lovely old home in
its parkway system as a rehearsal hall
and meeting place.

Something for everyone. Many
thousands of the citizens of Allentown
and surrounding communities have par-
ticipated in the production of light op-
era and musical comedy, both as per-
formers and all phases of stagecraft.
The “Senior Company,” the performing
group, is self-governing, COntrolled by
its own board of directors, elected by
its membership plus one representative
from city government (the councilman
in charge of parks and water under
whom the department of recreation is
established). The music and dramatic
directors are paid a nominal salary; all
other managing personnel are volun-
teers. The opera company presents two
shows a year in rented quarters, a legit-
imate theater in Allentown. The mu-
sicians in the orchestra are all hired
under union regulations as are the
stagehands.

The “Junior Municipals,” boys and
girls from eight to sixteen, under the
sponsorship of the parent company and

the “Opera Associates,” have succes-
fully produced light Opera and musical
comedy. This is a training ground for
the Senior Company, and many boys
and girls have graduated into the senior
productions. They have one production
a year, presented in a junior high-school
auditorium. The Opera Associates, a
group of both graduates of the senior
group and interested citizens, lend sup-
port to both the senior and junior
groups through ticket sales, stagecraft,
and costuming.

The Allentown Recreation Depart-
ment is very proud to sponsor the opera
company and twice a year awards
“Oscars” for outstanding performances
in the productions. The department also
assumes the responsibility of securing
the advertising for the souvenir pro-
grams.

Samuel C00perman, superintendent
of recreation, states that the recreation
department realizes that cultural activi-
ties are vitally needed for a well-rounded
program and feels that these musical
ventures have made a distinct contribu-
tion to the citizens of the area.

CIVIC LIGHT OPERA

THE Burbank Civic Light Opera in
Burbank, California, was organ-

ized in February of 1946 as a nonprofit

 

public-service feature under the aus-
pices of the Parks and Recreation De-
partment. During the fourteen years of
its existence this organization has
earned an enviable position for itself.
Not only has a tremendous concert
schedule been fulfilled, but the Civic
Light Opera has found time for many
TV appearances, operas and oratorios
with the Burbank and Valley Symphony
Orchestras, various appearances in
Burbank churches and hospitals. It has
produced such light Operas as Eileen,
Naughty Marietta, The Bartered Bride,
Sweethearts, Die F ledermaus, Blossom
Time, The Pirates of Penzance, The
Gypsy Baron, Orpheus in the Under-
world, The Song of Norway, The Vaga-
bond King, Martha, The Gondoliers,
The Fortune Teller, The Sorcerer, The
Merry Widow, and Rio Rita. Many
former member have been “scouted
out” and have achieved great success
with the Los Angeles Civic Light Opera,
the Schuberts in New York, and with
Fred Waring on both TV and radio.

All of the members are amateurs
who thoroughly like working together
for the betterment of music not only in
Burbank but for the entire San Fer-

nando Valley and the Los Angeles Met-
ropolitan area. It is this family effort

Members of the Opera Theatre
in Arlington, Virginia,
demonstrate some of the many
steps involved in the
production of an opera.

F or left, a costume adjustment
for Cosi Fan Tutte.

Some recreation departments
have a costume division

for drama and music programs.

Center, a tentative moment
during rehearsal of
Abduction from the Seraglio.
Right, performance of
Figaro hitting a high note.

Right, performers at
Oglebay Institute Opera
Workshop get some
pointers from associate
director Arthur Schoep.

Below, the “Telephone
Hour” scene from

Bye, Bye, Birdie as
performed by the Junior
Iliunicipal Opera
Company in Allentown,
Pennsylvania.

 

 

that makes the Burbank Civic Light
Opera what it is.

PHILADELPHIA LYRIC OPERA

OPERA was inaugurated in the Phila-
delphia Department of Recrea-
tion’s outdoor program starting June 2,
1963. Recreation Commissioner Robert
W. Crawford arranged for a series of
eight free weekly operas in concert
form to be presented at city facilities
by the Little Lyric Opera, a subsidiary
of the parent Philadelphia Lyric Opera
Company. The first concert was staged
at the art museum mall. The recreation
department handled all arrangements
for stage, sound, lighting, sets, and
orchestras. The Lyric Opera Company
is responsible for other phases, includ-
ing the payments to stagehands, movers,
and cast. The recreation department
contributes toward the support of the
two opera companies, the Lyric and
Grand Opera Company.

The remarkable feature about the
foregoing examples is the extent of
concentration upon training, produc-
tion, and performance. At this level, a
high degree of organization, manage-
ment, direction, combined sponsorship,
and availability of resources are re-
quired. Nevertheless, the examples show
that a program of training and per-
formance is possible. It is also interest-
ing to note that most of the repertoire
is devoted to traditional opera and con-
temporary lyric theater which, by defi-
nition, is one of the forms of opera.

In addition to the opportunities for
training, these community opera per-
formances, either in concert or staged,
represent a highly desirable goal and
major achievement for the community
recreation program. However, the rec-
reation department should plan a re-
lated program to supplement perform-
ances, or, in the absence of actual per-
formances, create opportunities for
developing interest in opera.

POINTERS FOR PROJECTS

THE FOLLOWING projects for partici-
pation and involvement, suggested
by the New York Metropolitan Opera
Guild, will strike a familiar note in the
ears of recreation leaders:

0 Hold an “Opera Sing.” Use simple
unison or two-part arrangement of

arias, which may be made by the music

1

teacher or talented students.

0 Listen to individual members of the
school orchestra or band in selections
from the opera.

0 Hear recordings and follow the
libretto.

0 Discuss principles of good singing,
the range and quality of various voices,
followed by demonstration of an aria
by recordings.
0 Pronounce

terms.

0 Read from the libretto in the original
language, following this by the English
translation.

0 Dramatize scenes from the opera.
Papier-maché masks may be used and
dialogue improvised as the action pro-
gresses.

0 Conduct an interview patterned after
the “This Is You Life” program, with
scripts on famous Opera personalities
prepared by students.

0 Create original dances using music
from the opera.

0 Draw a costume design for any char-
acter in a specified scene, following re-
search in the period of the opera.

0. Paint a picture inspired by the opera.

and discuss operatic

0 Use an event in an opera as the sub-
ject for a magazine cover.
0 Design a stage setting.

0 Construct a miniature stage set and

enclose it in a stiff cardboard box for

display.

0 Produce a puppet performance. Make

puppets of papier-maché and cloth, cos-
l tume them, construct simple sets, write
’ dialogue, and manipulate puppets dur-

ing dialogue. Recordings may be used
i when arias occur.

0 Dress dolls in various costumes of
l the Opera.
0 Make a frieze based on events in the
opera or a frieze depicting life in one
of the cities involved.
j 0 Construct a flannelboard (or flannel-
graph) of important props and card-
board characters. This may be used
during the telling of the story.
0 Construct a “filmstrip.” Each student
draws a favorite or assigned episode,
and these are shown in sequence by
means of an opaque projector during
j narration of the plot. Recordings may
be used.
0 Design posters announcing opera
projects or performances.

0 Design a bulletin board based on

opera in general or one opera in par-
ticular.

0 Arrange a display cabinet designed
to call attention to opera. Actual small
props may be shown, as well as paint-
ings, pictures, clippings, et cetera. Re-
corded excerpts may be played during
change of classes.

0 Prepare a notebook including stu-
dents’ research, interpretation, and re-
actions. A notebook could be based on
all phases of life in the period and
locale of the opera.

0 Tell the plot of an opera and omit
the last act; then have the students
write their own ending to the story.

0 Give the description of an operatic
character and then ask the class, “\Vho
am I”?

0 Write dialogue for an episode in the
plot.

0 Write the plot in narrative verse.

0 Write a personal letter to a friend
concerning some phase of opera you
are familiar with.

0 Write program notes on operatic
music that is to be performed.

0 Write a review of an opera for pub-

lication.

0 Debate the following questions:

Should opera in America be subsidized by
the government?

Should opera be translated and sung in
English for American audiences?

Has opera attained the popularity in
America that it enjoys in European coun-
tries?

Should the opera singer accept comedy as-
signments in television, night clubs or
elsewhere?

0 Prepare oral or written reports on

the following topics:

The plot and characters.

Comparison or contrast of characters.

A character trait, such as loyalty, revealed
in the opera. .
Events in the composer’s life which seemed
to influence his career and type of com-
position.

Historical background of the composition.
Costumes of the period.

Fashion of the period.

Historical events of the period.
Geographical allusions.

Literary background (books or plays) on
which the opera is based.

Other operas by the composer.

An opera performance on TV or radio.
Personal impressions of an Opera per-
formance.

Invisible people in opera, such as de-
signers, prompters, and electricians.

The career of a famous opera singer.

The origin of opera.

The various “schools” and languages of
opera.

0 Organize an Opera Club or Armchair
Opera club, using recordings and/ or

radio, TV broadcasts for programs.

0 Arrange for trips to opera.

0 Arrange for “supers” in opera per-
formances.

0 Prepare an opera scrapbook.

RESOURCES

THE Metropolitan Opera Guild has

available a list of books, Brief
Working Bibliography, which will be
useful in planning projects to recreation
leaders and participants. Among the
references listed are Opera for the Peo-
ple, Herbert Graf (Minneapolis, Uni-
versity of Minnesota Press) ; Short H is-
tory of Opera, Donald Grout (New
York, Columbia University Press) ;
Introduction to Opera, Mary Ellis Peltz
(New York, Barnes and Noble) ; Com-
plete Stories of the Great Operas, Milton
Cross (New York, Doubleday).

The guild also has available, at mod-
erate cost, a number of color slides and
filmstrips which are helpful in creating
supplementary programs. The list of
color slides and filmstrips may be ob-
tained by writing to Metropolitan Opera
Guild, Metropolitan Opera, 14-25 Broad-
way, New York City.

The Music Educators National Con-
ference, 1201 Sixteenth Street, N.W.,
Washington 6, D.C. has a partial list of
Opera Films and a comprehensive sur-
vey of all music films, Film Guide for
Music Educators, prepared by Donald
J. Shetler ($2.50). The Opera Films
list contains references to complete
operas and films on various related
subjects.

The National Federation of Music
Clubs, Suite 1215, 600 South Michigan
Avenue, Chicago 15, arranges for rental
of opera films (dubbed in English dia-
logue) through its Ways and Means
Committee. Complete information may
be obtained from Mrs. G. Ernest Moore,
Chairman, 311 East Edenton Street,
Raleigh, North Carolina.

Most of the major recording com-
panies distributing classical records will
have extensive listings of opera selec-
tions and complete operas. Their cat-
alogues may be consulted at local re-
cord shops or obtained by writing to
the record manufacturer._

PLANNING A PROGRAM

IN VIEW of the many resources and
ideas at hand, it would seem that a
supplementary opera program suitable

to any age level and interest could be
developed. A simple formula for plan-
ning such projects might well be as fol-
lows:

First, call together if possible a
group of people who know the field of
opera pretty thoroughly. This group
may include businessmen, garage me-
chanics, women’s club members, teach-
ers, or others in the community who are
intelligent opera enthusiasts, willing
and able to spend time with a group on
an opera project, and who know what
is suitable for different age levels and
interests. Discuss program possibilities
with them.

Second, hold a meeting with staff
leaders, volunteer leaders, and repre-
sentative participants to find out what
is of interest. Make plans for a program
or series of programs.

Let us suppose, for example, that a
group of children would like to become
familiar with Humperdinck’s Hansel
and Gretel. After hearing the story and
music, in brief at least, they may want
to go further to sing some of the songs
and perform dances, interpret the story
and music through crafts and the arts,
or act out the story. If a performance of
this classic children’s opera is presented,
the children may want to attend, enjoy,
and experience the opera at firsthand.
Members of the group might also wish
to go about a project in their own in-
dividual way. The recreation leader and
volunteers would assist the group or in-
dividuals to obtain records, literature,
and the means for carrying out the proj-
ect and provide guidance for them.

Teenagers may wish to produce a
current musical show entirely on their
own, especially those who have had ex-
perience in junior high school, or other
productions. The recreation leader can
help them with many important details,
such as arranging for rehearsal and
performance space, scheduling, obtain-
ing materials, preparing notices, pro-
grams, and publicity. Where this has
been done, direction emerges from the
group itself. Other teenage groups may
want to employ direction from the out-
side. It is not advisable for them to do
classical opera publicly unless soloists
have had considerable training in this

field.

Adults may want to take on responsi-
bility for scheduling a series of perform-

SINGING is the most natural
form of self-expression and
every one of [us] knows that
self-exPression is a necessity for
balanced living. If you can ex-
press yourself along with a lot
of other people, how much more
enjoyment you will gain! This
cooperative effort will give

pleasure to others, and there
you have a second value derived
from your own endeavor. . . .
After you have started to sing

yourself, encourage your chil-
dren to sing. There is so much
machine-made music nowadays
that we are developing into lis-
teners only. Do let your children
be Makers of Music. . . . In spite
of all the troubles in the world,
you can make things better by
making this a singing time.—
Nancy Pauline Turner, Music
Chairman, Califorina Congress
of Parents and Teachers.

 

ances in a park theater during the sum-
mer. These performances may be done
in accordance with local regulations by
both amateurs and professionals, if
talent is available in the area and ready
to perform. Since this task involves a
high degree of organization, manage-
ment, and financing, it would require
the help of people with business experi-
ence. These performances may be fully
or simply staged or presented in concert
form.

Performances may consist of opera

PHOTO CREDITS

Amahl and the Night Visitors:

Able’s Commercial Photography,
New Orleans.

Cosi F (m Tutte and Figaro:
William U. Rosenmund, Jr., Arling-
ton, Virginia. '

Abduction from the Seraglio:
Northern Virginia Sun.

Oglebay Opera Workshop:
Wheeling, West Virginia, Intelli-
gencer and News—Register.

Bye, Bye, Birdie: Miniphot Studio,
Allentown, Pennsylvania.

Cover Design by Don Smith,
New York City.

 

selections drawn from the solo, ensem-
ble, choral or orchestral opera reper-
toire. They may use guest soloists. Local
choral, dance, and instrumental organ-
izations may be called upon to partici-
pate in these presentations. A master of
ceremonies to comment on selections
and introduce performers will be help-
ful in unifying the program. Full pro-
duction of scenes, acts, or complete
operas will vary in their staging require-
ments. If a full production is planned,
experienced production staff will be
necessary. Costumes, sets, lighting,
sound and a host of other production
items must be taken care of, and can be
done only if a well-organized crew is
available to do it. A full production will
also require a staff to handle the “front
of the house.”

Generally, if serious financial and
managerial responsibilities are involved,
the parks and recreation department
will want to have the help of people with
business experience in sponsoring such
a project. An evening of opera under
the stars can be one of the most enjoy-
able of summer recreation programs.
The same can be true of a winter season
performance in the local auditorium
theater. A civic organization may well
join the recreation department in this
exciting venture.

When sufiicient interest, talent, and
resources become evident, plans for an
opera workshop and permanent amateur
opera company productions may be
considered and embarked upon in as
described hitherto. Children’s operetta
production may also become a feature
of the recreation program.

THE ARTS will increasingly affect the
shape and character of our coming
age of leisure through a continued proc-
ess of decentralization and new growth.
Opera and musical theater are vital ele-
ments in this emerging pattern of lei-
sure. However controversial, misunder-
stood, complex, and hectic opera may
be, it also happens to be true that this
hybrid art form can become one of the
greatest of theatrical experiences. Noth-
ing in art can surpass the human voice
in its power of speaking dramatically
through music to the people.

If community recreation wants to
make leisure more exciting, let it do
opera!

 

Our light operas and musical comedies are characteristic
of the New World. They express the vitality, gaiety and

sentimentality of America in the Twentieth century.

TAKEN FROM:

1960 Report to John Kennedy Center
for the Performing Arts.

Pamphlet Series—The Performing Arts as Recreation 9’.

>
.///"\ 2/

 

_..-n

time ta
44%
m 725an We

.r

K ‘h‘:
E

I

L 471‘.

from
(464

WWW

(If/“364
“WWW

New title:

No. V—OPERA IS RECREATION

Order in Quantity Lots :

No. I — MUSIC IS RECREATION
No. II —— DRAMA IS RECREATION
No. III —— DANCE IS RECREATION
No. IV — POETRY IS RECREATION

 

 

Use with
Your staff Your board or commission
Advisory Committees Citizen committees
Clubs Planning groups
And for
Fundraising Publicity Telling your story
Program Planning Education Selling recreation
Training of volunteers Promotion of bond issues

Current prices as applied to each title

 

Single copies, $1.00; except Poetry, $.50 0 Set of live titles, $3.50

11 to 24 copies of the same title, $.85 each; Poetry, $.40 each 0
25 or more, 3.75 each; Poetry, $5.35 each
100 or over of the same title, $60 per hundred; Poetry, $30.00

 

Order from

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION 8 West 8th Street, New York, NY. 10011

 

 

ADMINISTRATION

LEADERS OF LEISURE

Are we prepared to meet the needs of a new era?

Ear|_-Kauf’fman

L EISURE PLANNING for today’s society

is gathering momentum as a social
movement. Professions come into ex-
istence when people band together to
solve basically important problems and
when they turn to the fields of science
and learning to get their materials for
this purpose. There is emerging now a
science of leisure, and people are dedicating themselves to
its mastery in order that they can step forward as leaders
for the new era. Some colleges and universities are oiiering
systematic education to help people achieve their ambitions
to become “leaders of leisure.” Practitioners in the field
have formed several associations to advance the national
understanding of the dynamics of leisure and to formulate
standards of practice. A considerable body of knowledge
based upon research is being developed.

Leaders are needed who can cope with extremely complex
problems of human relations and environmental control.
Prospective employers include such agencies of federal,
state, and local government as departments of health, mental
health, rehabilitation, corrections, housing, conservation,
fish and wildlife, parks, planning and zoning, highways, ed-
ucation, veterans affairs, recreation. Employers in the pri-
vate sector are group-work agencies such as the Boy and Girl
Scouts, YMCA’s and YWCA’s, settlement houses, nursing
homes, industry, camps, resorts, travel agencies, clubs, and
proprietary operations.

 

Just as any vital movement changes with growth and ma-
turity so too is recreation as a profession changing. Where
once the titles of position read director, activities super-
visor, and play leaders, some new terms are already being
used and others are ust emerging. For instance, the direct-
or is now commonly known as the superintendent. This title
connotes interpretation of a philosophy of leisure as the basis
upon which policies are formulated and plans made.

The greatest change in ob titles will result from the rec-
ognition of evolving roles of leadership. It is most likely
that the program supervisors will give way to the leisure
counselors. These will be highly trained specialists in dis-
covering the leisure needs of people and helping the com-
munity provide for meeting these needs in ways which will

be personally satisfying to the individuals and enhancing
to the welfare of the community.

 

DR. KAUFFMAN is chairman of the division of recreation at
the University of Kentucky.

NOVEMBER, 1964

The play leaders will give way to people trained in the
art and science of discovering potential leadership indigen-
ous to the community. Our cities and counties cannot—nor
should they—hire all the leadership required to meet the
needs of all of the people. To limit the program to less than
“all of the people” is to short change the community. This
is inexcusable especially when leadership can be found if
it is sought, and can be effective if it is trained. This requires
a staff person especially equipped for such work; hence a
new title, perhaps educational director.

The leadership supervisor described above makes use of
a type of personnel long associated with recreation pro-
grams. These are the part-time specialists, the summer lead-
ers, and the volunteers. Experts from many disciplines be-
come involved in the total program. Since they have been
trained for special purposes they will carry special titles in
the new program. For the most part they will be called
“recreation aides” to give them the honor their services
warrant but to distinguish them from the professional rec-
reators.

Most recreation staffs in the future will have specialists in
planning and research. If a program is dynamic it will be
in a constant state of flux, of change. How can motion be
evaluated without both quantitative and qualitative meas-
ures of change and a yardstick of values? This person will
be an expert in planning both the physical and social en-
vironment of the community. He will be equally at home
with architects, urban renewal authorities, planning and
zoning commissioners, and social psychologists. Our pres-
ent staffing patterns, except in the very large cities, do not
provide for such a person now.

To summarize the functions performed by “leaders of
leisure” the following basic pattern will probably become
widely adopted by progressive communities:

0 Discovering the needs of people as basic to personal and
community planning.

0 Locating potential leadership within the community.

0 Preparing this leadership for service.

0 Providing the necessary planning and administrative sup-
port—budgets, facilities, personnel, materials, and organ-
izational procedures. _

o Relating people with needs to leaders prepared to serve
them in programs that are “people” and community orient-

ed.

0 Evaluating processes, methods, outcomes, needs and other
variables in terms of personal needs, social values, and com-
munity goals.

463

SALARIES paid to professionally trained recreation per-
sonnel compare favorably with those found in most

fields. What is most important is the growth potential of
the field. When the leaders succeed in demonstrating the ef-
fectiveness of their technique they will be rewarded by a
grateful society. Present salaries range from $5,500 per
year upward in public and private employment. Earning ex-
pectations after experience and advanced training may cen-
ter around $8,500-$12,000 per year and more. Private en-
trepeneurs may earn very large annual incomes.

The University of Kentucky, through its topical major in
recreation, is uniquely equipped to prepare leaders for leis-
ure. Accepting the assumption that all students do not have
identical needs nor all employers a universal requirement,
the topical major in recreation provides for hand tailoring

the course of study to fit each individual case. The high
academic requirement, a 2.5 overall average, is a stimulus to
achieve scholastic excellence. The basic core of the college
of arts and sciences in which the tepical major is located
assures the student of the satisfaction of a broad cultural
background. Special sequences are becoming available for
particular functions, such as hospital recreation, outdoor
recreation, and recreation for special groups.

To complete the professional preparation of students it is
most important that opportunities for adequate fieldwork
experiences be provided. Merely assigning students to de-
partments and agencies where they work for you will not
be enough. Of course students are expected to work; but
what we can give them in guidance and supervision will
make them as good or as bad as the agency itself. #

W

Building a Department
Continued from Page 445

 

a personnel salary plan for full- and part-time employees.

A small lot was donated by the city for a beautification
area. A three-acre site at the north entrance to the city was
donated and, through a cooperative agreement with the city
and the More Beautiful Springfield Committee, plans were
developed for it. An eight-acre site east of the district
boundaries in the rapidly growing eastern urban area was
purchased for future deve10pment of a neighborhood park.
A fourteen-and-a-half acre site adjacent to a school in the
eastern urban area was purchased for future development
of a community park-school.

An application for federal funds under the “Open Space
Program” was developed and submitted. This application
included the purchase of five park sites, four of which have
now valuable river frontage. Program expansion placed
increased emphasis on cultural activities. An outstanding
chorale was established, directed by a local doctor volunteer.

The camping program doubled, with the addition of a
regular day-camp program, fishing hikes, snow-camp pro-
gram, and improvements to the existing Alpine and over-
night camping programs. Fitness activities expanded to in-
clude all age groups, with more emphasis placed on adult
fitness, again with outstanding volunteer leadership. More
emphasis was placed on activities for girls, women, and the
family.

The Willamalane bus was used to provide bus service from
outlaying neighborhood parks to the pool and also for other
activities. The scheduling of playground activities on a new,
split schedule, from 9-12:30 and 4:00-8:00, leaving the hot
afternoon period open, was very successful. It also helped
increase parent participation.

Several neighborhood meetings were held to discuss park
planning in individual neighborhoods. These were well at-
tended. The board of directors recommended that these
meetings be held annually in each neighborhood if possible.

First School-Park Joint Development—at
Lee Elementary School—Beverly Park. A
Joint Planning Committee composed of
representatives of both agencies worked out the individual

1963

464

and joint responsibilities which were eventually approved
by both boards. Development began with the park district
installing automatic irrigation system and providing the
seed for five acres of turf on school grounds.

Willamalane’s covered combination indoor-outdoor pool
was completed and dedicated March 17, 1963. This beauti-
ful, spacious structure gives district residents the largest
covered swim facility in the Pacific Northwest, with year-
round swimming instead of just three months.

The district spearheaded the city beautification program
and coordinated all public agencies and community commit-
tees into one unified organization, the Springfield Beauti-
fication Advisory Council. Initial accomplishments included
a survey of other community-beautification programs; de-
termination of individual public agency responsibilities;
organization of a community clean-up, paint-up, fix-up cam-
paign.

The year-round swim program became a reality with
School District #19’5 contractual agreement f0r a “Learn-
to-Swim” program for all fourth-, fifth-, and sixth-grade
students throughout the school district. Program was con-
ducted by park district staff with coordination of School
District #19 physical education supervisor.

A forty-acre day camp area was donated by the Georgia-
Pacific Corporation. This beautiful, heavily wooded area
on the south side of Mill Creek in the Wendling‘ area
enabled the park district to program a full day-camp ex-
perience for the many youngsters of the area. Another ex-
cellent addition to Willamalane’s facilities was the McKenzie

Center, owned by the Housing Authority. It enabled the
park district to operate more extensive arts and crafts serv-
ices. A large ceramic kiln was purchased and installed for
crafts programs. The building was also used for various
other district activities.

A house-to-house survey of residents in those areas im-
mediately outside district boundaries indicated strong in-
terest in district services with 70.4 percent participation
from the areas. The district board of directors decided to
study this annexation problem more thoroughly before
further action. They selected two study committees com-
posed of people from the areas surveyed to assist them. #

RECREATION

 

ADMINISTRATION

The Problem of Priorities

How should we classify and guide the use

of public recreation facilities by many clamorous groups?

How do we avoid conflicts?

Linn R. Rockwood

M ORE AND MORE AGENCIES, organiza-
tions, and clubs are entering the
field of recreation programming. If cur-
rent literature and reports of recrea-
tionists at conferences and conventions
indicates a trend, it appears to be that
it is toward the encouragement by the
public recreation agencies of more self-
directing programs. Some of these self-directing pro-
grams are initiated by the public agency but later encour-
aged to go on almost independently, while others are spon-
taneously initiated by interested parties, but desire assist-
ance in one way or another from the public recreation
agency. A great many of these require the use of public
recreation facilities on either a regular or periodic basis.

Some promoters of and participants in such recreation
programs often tend to become quite possessive in their
attitude toward their use of public recreation facilities, or
in demanding services from the public recreation agency.
Inevitably, there will be those who will contend that because
they are taxpayers in the community, or because the par-
ticular recreation activities they are promoting provide rec-
reation opportunities for a certain number of taXpayers or
childen of taxpayers, they are engaged in a “public” recrea-
tion project. Their concomitant viewpoint is that, there-
fore, their programs should enjoy the same priority on and
privilege in the use of public recreation facilities, or the
same call on certain auxiliary services from the public rec-
reation agency, as those programs directly sponsored and
conducted by the public agency. Often they may even peti-
tion the governing officials fOr special privileges, preferred
use of facilities, and special services from the public agency
which are not generally provided. It is most unusual, how-
ever, when such groups will admit to having any responsi-
bilities or obligations to the public recreation agency or to
the general public, aside from those of the general public
to whom their activities might cater.

Unless the public recreation agency has an established

 

 

MR. ROCKWOOD is director of parks and recreation in Provo,
Utah.

NOVEMBER, 1964

policy, or exercises some strong guiding influence, the pat-
tern by which certain recreation programs and activities
will Often evolve in a community is such that it will become
extremely difficult to delineate between programs of a
“public,” “private,” and “commercial” nature that are going
on. If the public agency has not adopted definite policies
in advance, this situation is replete with possibilities for
conflict, public controversies, and burdensome administra-
tive difficulties. The public recreation agency may well
find itself having little, if any, control over certain recrea-
tion activities being carried on at public facilities. Yet, it
will be associated with these activities in the eyes of the
public and will therefore be in a precarious and some-
times vulnerable position. If it turns out that certain of
these programs are not operating in a wholesome way or
in the best interests of the entire community, then the public
recreation agency is indeed skating on thin ice.

If we, as recreation administrators, are to discharge our
full responsibility to the citizenry of the community, and if
we are to give something more than lip service to the appella-
tion “professional,” it appears that we ought to be able to
suggest some policy based on sound recreation principles
that would enable us to determine which particular activi-
ties, or when-certain activities, are “public,” and when they
should be classed as “private,” or “commercial.” This, in
turn, might enable us to accord appropriate priority, privi-
lege, and service to these programs. Policies, of course,
normally will have to be approved and adopted by the man-
aging recreation authority; but certainly direction in the

formulation of policies should be expected from the profes-
sional recreationists. ‘

THERE ARE probably several pertinent questions about
which this problem seems to revolve. Let us enumer-

ate them here: ‘

0 Should programs actually sponsored or conducted by the

public recreation agency take precedence over all other pro-

grams, so far as facilities and services provided by the pub-

lic recreation agency for recreation?

o What bearing should the fact that various groups may

465

operate their programs in a way that is either consistent or
inconsistent with the aims, standards, and objectives of the
public recreation agency, have upon the provision of areas,
facilities, and services by the public agency for these pro-
grams?

0 What bearing should the fact that programs of various
groups may be more or less wholesome and beneficial to
the community have upon the provision of areas, facilities,
and services by the public recreation agency for these pro-
grams?

0 What, if any, bearing on this question should the fact
that certain individuals who are promoters of or partici-
pants in these groups sponsoring programs, and desiring
facilities or services from the public agency are taxpayers,
and thus helping to support the public recreation agency?
Does this in itself make programs they are promoting “pub-
lic” in nature, or entitle their group to all of the privileges,
priorities, or services accorded a “public” recreation pro-
gram?

While a number of recreation administrators have in their
writings skirted around the periphery of this question and
propounded principles that should be more or less applic-
able to this problem, none seems to have brought this par-
ticular problem into clear focus. It seems that what is
needed at this point is a synthesizing of various applicable
recreation principles into a clear-cut statement of philosophy
that would lead to the formulation of definite policy and
that will aid a recreation administrator in the execution of
such a policy in day-to-day operation.

“Public recreation” is not the only type of recreation
necessary or desirable in a community. Who would deny to
any private or commercial group the privilege of operating
its recreation programs any way it sees fit, so long as it is
socially acceptable? It would also be foolish to wish to
have a public recreation agency “take over” the programs
of any agency that wished to maintain a “private” status.
However, it does not seem inappropriate for the managing
authority of public recreation in a community to lay some
basis by which it can determine if, or to what extent, recrea-
tion programs sponsored by various groups are of a “pub-
lic,” “private,” or “commercial” nature, and to grant pri-
orities, and privileges in the use of public facilities and
services by the public recreation agency accordingly.

For purposes of distinguishing between types of recrea-
tion programs from the point of view of sponsorship, and
as a basis for policy formulation, here is a possible classi-
fication method.

Category I includes public-sponsored or conducted ac-
tivities such as those conducted by a public recreation
agency or the public schools. These characteristics would
distinguish activities in this category:

1. They are conducted by leadership supplied by and
responsible to the public agency. The leadership may be
either paid on a salaried or contractual basis by the public
agency, or it may be volunteer leadership appointed by,
under the direction and control of, and responsible to the
public agency.

2. The activities are financed in whole by the sponsoring
public agency from tax funds; partly by such funds and

466

partly from fees and charges assessed by the public agency;
or entirely from fees and charges assessed by the public
agency; but, in any case, the funds for the support of the
activity are collected and disbursed by the sponsoring pub-
lic agency.

3. The activities assume all of these major aspects of a
public recreation program: they should be constructive and
made available to all citizens, although not necessarily on a
free basis; costs should be reasonable in proportion to
value received; and participation should not be restricted
by political, religious, or similar discriminatory practice.

4. The public recreation or other public agency would
control and be completely responsible for these activities.

Category II includes activities sponsored by groups
maintaining an active aiiiliation with the public recreation
agency such as self-directed adult groups and adult-led
organizations for youth. These characteristics would dis-
tinguish activities in this category:

1. They are not directed by persons appointed by repre-
sentatives elected by the citizens, or by an employe of a
public agency, except as any one of these may voluntarily
be a leader of such a group in his capacity as a private
citizen.

2. They are directed by individuals designated by con-
trolling committees or boards made up of the chief bene-
factors of participants in the program.

3. The recreation activities may have been entirely self-
initiated and be entirely self-conducted, or may have been
initiated or organized by the public recreation agency, but
placed on a self-directing, self-led basis.

4. The recreation activities “are financed from sources
other than tax funds or fees assessed and collected by a
sponsoring public agency. Their sources of revenue may
be donations from civic, fraternal, or commercial organi-
zations; or membership or participation fees or dues as-
sessed by the agency itself. In any case, the funds are not
routed through or disbursed by a public agency.

5. The recreation activities are very wholesome, desir-
able, and beneficial to the community, and rather closely
allied to all of the criteria for an acceptable public recrea-
tion program.

6. They voluntarily affiliate themselves with the public
recreation agency.

7. The purposes and objectives of the activity as out.
lined in some definite written statement, as well as the ac-
tual operation practices of the group, are in harmony with
and officially approved by the public recreation agency in
order to obtain afiiliated status.

8. The public recreation agency would control and be
responsible for these activities only to the extent that it
would assure that activities were conducted according to
statement of these at the time of alIiliation with the public
recreation agency.

Category III includes activities of non-commercial
groups who do not desire to have any affiliation with the pub-
lic recreation agency: self-directed or self-governing adult
groups; self-directed, self-governing, adult-led organizations
for youth; and miscellaneous groups. These characteristics
would distinguish groups in this category:

RECREATION

1. They wish to operate their programs on such a basis
that the recreation philosophy, the purposes, objectives, and
the practices of the group are kept strictly intact as their
organization itself determines, without any dovetailing with
those adopted by the public recreation agency.

2. They do not desire to obtain any afiiliated status with
the public recreation agency.

3. The recreation activities in question that are spon-
sored by these groups may be more or less wholesome and
beneficial to the community, but are lacking in one or more
of the criteria for an acceptable public recreation program.

4. Other characteristics in many cases may be the same
as those in Category II such as in leadership, finance, and
methods by which the activities are initiated.

5. The public recreation agency would have no control
over or responsibility for these activities, other than to as-
sure that those which may be conducted on property under
the jurisdiction of the public agency are conducted on a
socially acceptable level.

Category IV includes activities of a commercial nature
such as public dances; wrestling, boxing, or other sports
promotions; carnivals, circuses, et cetera; and miscella-
neous. These characteristics would distinguish activities in
this category: ’

1. The activity is carried on primarily in the interest
of a financial profit for some individual, company, or organ-
ization, rather than primarily for service to the public or
to a more limited group of people comprising some civic
or voluntary organization.

2. The sponsoring group would be entirely responsible
for the activities. With the adoption of such a classification
system, it would then be possible to determine what rights,
privileges, and priorities sponsoring agencies might expect
as they desire to utilize public recreation facilities or in
obtaining certain services, as well as what obligations they
might have to the public agency.

THE FOLLOWING would seem to be practical and in har-
mony with the above classification and with sound
public recreation philosophy.

1. Recreation activities of groups coming under Cate-
gory I should receive top priority and greatest privilege in
the use of public recreation facilities, and should receive
the fullest cooperation from those various public agencies
and departments that are in a position to assist.

2. Because of the closeness of the recreation purposes,
objectives, and practices of groups in Category II with
those of public recreation and because of their voluntary
affiliation with the public recreation agency, they should be
eligible for the use of public recreation facilities and for
cooperation from public agencies and departments on a
high priority and somewhat privileged basis, although with
lesser priority and on a less-privileged basis than those in

TH

    

' NOVEMBER, 1964

ERE IS more than promise and hOpe ahead for the many and diverse patterns of post-high-school education.
There is an impelling necessity. The leisure-time activities of increasing millions of our citizens, especially as
they reach retirement age, the vast amount of time to be filled by housewives whose families have grown up and
left the home, the minds of millions of men and women who do not go to college out of choice or circumstances,
as well as the millions who do—all these represent ample material with which we can and must employ our-
SCIVeS.—SAMUEL B. GOULD in Knowledge Is Not Enough (Antioch Press) .

 

Category I. Such resources as funds, facilities, and per-
sonnel possessed by the public agency would largely deter-
mine the amount of assistance they might be given.

3. For recreation activities of groups falling in Category
III, it is suggested that the managing recreation authority
consider the purposes, objectives, and practices of such
groups to try to evaluate the extent to which the recrea-
tional activities in question are generally wholesome and
beneficial to the community, and to what extent these activi-
ties conform to the criteria for acceptable public recreation
programs. The more wholesome and beneficial, and the
more closely these activities might conform to principles of
sound public recreation, the more consideration they should
be given in assigning them priority and privilege in the use
of public facilities and in receiving auxiliary services from
public agencies and departments in conducting these recrea-
tion programs. The resources of the public agency again
must be considered; but in any case, they should be en-
titled to a lesser priority and privilege than activities in
Categories I and II.

4-. Groups in Category IV should pay for the use of pub-
lic recreation facilities on a commercial or rental basis,
which might be such as to produce a revenue over and above
the cost of turning the facility over to them in a condition
suitable for their use. The priority of such groups should
be determined by weighing such factors as the necessity
for having the profit realized from the rental of the facility
help defray the total operational or maintenance costs of
the facility, considering all types of activities conducted
there, the available time open after due consideration of the
needs of activities in Categories I, II, and III; the whole-
someness or benefit to the community of the commercial
activities; and other peculiar considerations which may
have a bearing on the question. The privileges would be
those specified in the lease or rental contract or agreement.

In the treatment of this problem here, no claim is made
for originality so far as the public recreation principles em-
bodied, only that an attempt is made to weave together those
that are applicable in this situation into a philosophy, merg-
ing into a rather definite policy. This, in turn, would give
the administrator something on which to base decisions on
such problems as may arise in this area, other than to meet
each case according to the expediency of the moment. These
suggestions are offered not as a pattern to be followed in
toto by any public recreation agency, but rather as a sort
of catalyst to stimulate the thinking of other recreationists
on this matter. Professional recreation people should ana-
lyze and constructively criticize this imploratory probing
of the subject. No doubt some improvements and refine-
ments could be made. Perhaps other recreation leaders
will have other approaches to this subject which may be
more practical and offer hope of better solutions to prob-
lems of this type confronting recreation administrators.

  
 
   
     

467

HOW WE FAIL

IN RECRUITMENT

Do we know how to appeal to today’s sophisticated high-school student?

Louis F. Twardzik

HE high-school
student of to-

day has vastly dif-
ferent preferences
and opportunities
available than any
of his predecessors.
Today’s high-
school and college student is encased in
an educational environment that places
top priority on the sciences, with lucra-
tive career Opportunities available in
those professions whose primary con-
cern is trying to “shoot the moon” and
“defeat diseases.” The demand for
students to keep abreast of the insati-
able need for trained technologists in
all branches of physics, engineering,
mathematics, medicine, and the im-
mediate attendant financial rewards
and the status that society confers upon
pe0ple entering these professions is
awe-inspiring. High-school
who are not aware of such career op-
portunities cannot either read nor hear.
Today’s high-school student is in a
position to choose a variety of careers,

 

students

not just college training that will assure
him employment, the consideration of
many of his predecessors, f0r employ-
ment is guaranteed. He considers,
rather, which of these major areas of
study have the most to offer him im-
mediately upon graduation. With high-
school counseling services available to-
day and the demand for top-level high-
school graduates, the student emerges
as a sophisticated buyer in a buyer’s

MR. TWARDZIK is assistant professor in
park and recreation administration in
the Department of Resource Develop-
ment, Michigan State University, East
Lansing. This material is taken from
a speech presented at the 1964 Great
Lakes District Park and Recreation
Conference in. Milwaukee.

468

 

market, and he “shops” accordingly.

The factors that influence high-
school graduates in the selection of a
career—rewards, status, and accom-
plishment—are but after-the-fact in-
fluences. One of the most important
single before-the-fact inHuences of ca-
reer decision is parental approval.
Some may feel this factor should be
discounted and not given priority in a
listing of influential factors. However,
parental approval is even more impor-
tant today as a career influence because
parents are generally more highly edu-
cated and more knowledgeable about
careers than their predecessors. A great
majority of parents still want their chil-
dren in the traditional professions. Cer-
tainly a higher percentage of parents
concerned about their children’s careers
cringe when the youngster says he wants
to go to college to become a playground
leader!

HIS, then, is our situation in re-
cruiting for professional careers
in recreation. The high-school gradu-

RECRUITMENT SERIES #1

ate we h0pe to attract is a sophisticated
youngster who knows he will be in de-
mand as a college graduate in any num-
ber of a wide variety of professions.
He knows he will be guaranteed a job
upon graduation from college at a be-
ginning salary his father may have had
to work ten or fifteen years to achieve.
He knows that in an automated econ-
omy, a career in the services will almost
inveritably confer upon him all the re-
wards to which most people aspire. This
same high-school student has been con-
ditioned to be aware of this situation
through more highly educated parents
and improved high-school guidance and
counseling services, and, of course, the
news media.

In general, this is why we have failed
in recruiting for professional careers in
recreation. We have failed to recognize
that our high-school graduates have
grown up with them. The high—school
graduate is looking to the 21st century
while we in the profession of recreation
cannot seem to break away from the
Boston sand gardens in our concept of
careers in recreation.

OBVIOUSLY, we should work toward
effective recruitment for recreation
and, therefore, we should:

0 Depict the various possibilities for
advancement in the field of recreation
from beginning positions to supervisory
to administration. Show the benefits of
the hierarchial roles of the public and
private executive in recreation.

o Depict the wide variety of career
opportunities in recreation: from urban
situations to outdoor recreation; from
employment with voluntary agencies to
public agencies and private and com-
mercial situations; and local, state, and
federal government opportunities.

0 Describe typical park and recre-

iECREATION

 

ation agencies, the various responsibili-
ties of each agency, their resources, and
work environment.

THOSE ARE SOME of the things we
need to do in placing our case for
careers before the student, his parents,
his guidance counselors, and the public.
In addition, to add substance to the
image we present, we must realize that:

o It is an absurd contradiction to
employ a person with a college degree
in parks and recreation, then start his
professional employment in a subpro-
fessional capacity! There is the distinct
possibility we are the last professional
group to promulgate this archaic prac-
tice wherein professionally trained per-
sons are asked to continue to prove
themselves on the job, sometimes for
years before they are permitted to as-
sume professional responsibilities. A
professional intern program which per-
mits the newly graduated person to gain
an association and experience on the job
is how a college-trained person is treated
in other professions. The new man
should be welcomed to his first job as
a fellow professional even though all
concerned recognize that he still has
much to learn. We must recognize those
work responsibilities that are subprofes-
sional in nature; then fill those positions
accordingly.

0 The world is moving and changing
too fast to think that our basic college
education provided time for us to learn
concepts and skills to meet the results
of this changing world. In the engineer-
ing profession some skills learned in

j undergraduate college days become ob-

solete during the first year on the job.
Knowledge in recreation is also expand-
ing. For example, the federal Bureau

l of Outdoor Recreation is becoming the

most important single institutional force
in recreation at all levels. This agency
did not exist when most of us were
studying recreation administration and
policies in college. Therefore, our unior
students in park and recreation adminis-
tration know more about the Bureau of
Outdoor Recreation, its beginnings and
policies, than the majority of park and
recreation administrators.

o The professional in recreation to-
|day is being called upon to make deci-
sions on allocation and distribution of

l
jNOVEMBER, 1964

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

human and natural and economic re-
sources which would be completely
foreign to our predecessors in this field.
To keep abreast of current knowledge
in our field, we——each of us— will have
to make personal plans for continuing
education.

   

    

AIDS TO LIGHTEN
YOUR LOAD °""°"°"'

more than
FREE

40 years'
Instructional

experience
FILMS

for classes,
meetings, workshops

 
    

 
     
 

WE CAN REVERSE our failure in re-
cruiting for professional careers
in recreation by:

c Recognizing that the type of high-
school graduate we need to attract to
college training in our field is being
actively sought by other professions
and that this competition will become
even greater in the future.

0 Recognizing that the student is
much more alert and knowledgeable
about choices in careers than we have
given him credit for in the past. We are
the ones who have to prove to him that
recreation has something he wants.

0 Proving to him that the challenge
to meet the needs and demands for hu-
man satisfactions and enjoyment can
only be met by brain power and not
by a skillful musculature.

o Proving that the process in meet-
ing these challenges can in itself be
actually enjoyable and adventuresome
and continually changing.

o Describing to him, in detail, the
advantages possible in working with
people directly and through the natural
resources provided or reserved for them.

0 Alerting him to the fact his con- and Recreation Departments
temporaries 1n the profession will have
earned graduate degrees and that dur- ?

ing his professional lifetime career he ARE THE PARTICIPANTS

      
   
 
 

  

Workshop
Progra ms

 
 
    
  
 

Teaching Aids
for

LEATHERCRAFT
and 23 other popular crafts

135 skilled instructOrs in 100 major
Cities ready to help you!

Write today for  

Please specify LEATHERCRAFI'



LEATHER

AMERICAN HANDICRAFTS CO.
(A Division of Tandy Corp.)

P. 0. Box 791 F2 Fort Worth. Texas

   
     
   
      
 
   

  
      
 

 

ATTENTION

all
NRA-Affiliated Parks

will also be expected to have earned a in you:
graduate degree in recreation. SPORTS PROGRAMS
0 Making known the wide and still PROTECTED
virgin grounds for research in recre- with
ation. Research is the hallmark of a ACCIDENT COVERAGE
profession.
o Approaching the student as a ma- ?

ture and intelligent person by encour-
aging him to enter the park and recre-
ation profession through intelligent and
mature-caliber literature and other in-
formation media.

Accidents Do Happen!

For sports team insurance to
protect your basketball. foot-
balL and ice hockey teams.

0 Last—and above all—convincing write to
these youngsters that recreation is still the
a young profession too young to have NATIONAL
become rigidly stratified in fixed con-
cepts and practices and that, as a young BECREATIoN
ASSOCIATION

profession, recreation continues to need
the new ideas that young minds can
bring to it. #

8 West Eighth Street. New York. N.Y. 10011

469

STATE

AND

LOCAL
DEVELOPMENTS

ELVIRA DELANY

 

ARIZONA. Pima County recently took title to 635 acres
of public land. Included are 615 acres in Tucson Mountain
Park and ‘two 10-acre tracts outside the park, made avail-
able to the county by the Department of the Interior’s Bu-
reau of Land Management. The land was sold to the county
for $2.50 per acre through provisions of the Recreation and
Public Purpose Act. The low figure was made possible un-
der a pricing schedule set in 1961 by Secretary of the Interior
Stewart L. Udall to provide public land to states, counties,
and other qualified agencies at nominal fees. Qualified
agencies may obtain public land at a lease rate of $.25 per
acre, or may purchase it at $2.50 per acre.

The 615 acres is part of 6,625 acres of public land leased
to the county November 30, 1961 by the Department of the
Interior for park develoPment, The two 10-acre tracts, five
and six miles west of South Tucson, are for neighborhood
parks adjacent to school sites. The school sites were public
land previously deeded to the county by BLM in May 1962
under the RSIPP Act and Secretary Udall’s pricing schedule
of $2.50 per acre.

Thomas Jay, chairman of the Pima County Board of Su-
pervisors, in accepting the patent on behalf of the county,
said, “Each purchase by Pima County of land in the Tucson
Mountain Park brings us closer to the county’s goal of ac-
quiring all twelve thousand acres within the boundaries of
the park. Ever since the park was first established on April
11, 1929, through the efforts of C. B. Brown, Senator Carl
Hayden, and the board of supervisors, this project has been
a matter of great concern to the county.”

More than $100,000 in park improvements, including pic-
nic grounds, Old Tucson, and the Arizona-Sonora Desert
Museum, have been added during recent months and bring
the total park development to more than $4,000,000, Mr. Jay
reports. Additional picnic areas, fireplaces, ramadas (per-
gola-like structures) , and playground equipment are planned
for the more than ninety thousand visitors who enjoy the
park each month from October through April.

The area was originally set aside by the Department of
the Interior for recreation use in April 1929. In 1931,
twenty-year leases were issued to Pima County and were
later extended to 1954. When the extended leases expired,
cost of renewal was considered prohibitive under existing
price schedules. In October 1959, a public hearing deter-

470

mined the lands should be kept closed to mineral location
since recreation values were considered paramount. In July
1961, Secretary Stewart L. Udall set the new pricing schedule
which made it practical for the county to resume leasing
and also to plan a purchasing program.

CALIFORNIA. A 56-acre area of Los Angeles, previously
an undeveloped fire hazard, became an important public
facility recently when the new Roosevelt Golf Course in
Griffith Park was dedicated. Pointing out that no bond fund
or general tax money was used to create the new course, Wil-
liam Frederickson In, general manager of the Los Angeles
City Recreation and Parks Department, said that the entire
city will benefit from the new course. Golfers have a facil-
ity superior in all respects to the old Roosevelt Course, and,
in addition, players will have a beautiful panoramic vista
of the city to the south. Citizens living in residences in Ver-
mont, Aberdeen, and Commonwealth Canyons to the south
have a green belt which provides a fire barrier between their
homes and the Chaparral-covered slopes of the park. The
former Roosevelt Course was deactivated to become a por-
tion of the new Greater Los Angeles Zoo.

The badly needed development of the 56-acre area was

made possible through the use of freeway relocation funds
and golf capital improvement funds. Freeway relocation
funds were used to defray a part of the expense because con-
struction of the Golden State Freeway preempted golf course.
Golf capital-improvements funds were used because exten-
sive rehabilitation of the old course was long overdue. It
would have cost more than $400,000 to widen fairways and
to remove extremely hazardous conditions.

The old Roosevelt Course was originally designed in 1914
as a sand green and the original designers could not anti-
cipate the heavy play the course would attract, nor the
vast change in the techniques of the game itself. In stressing
the tremendous amount of preliminary work necessary to
create the new course, Mr. Frederickson points out that a
million cubic yards of dirt had to be moved in order to make
the site usable for any recreation purpose. This is the equiv-
alent of moving a mountain 2,700 feet high with a hundred-
foot-square base. It was also necessary to install under-
ground utilities and a sprinkler system—work which would
have been required if the area was to be developed for any
use.
Expenditure for creating the course itself was $215,400,
and the starters’ building and 66-car parking lot cost $38,-
361. However, the tremendous task of clearing the site and
grading cost $486,000; and another $118,000 was spent for
the sprinkler system; thus, $604,655 of the $858,426 project
was eXpended to prepare the land for use and Open up an
entirely new area of 4,109-acre Griffith Park.

More than two-thirds of Grifch Park will probably al-
ways remain undeveloped in order to provide a virtual wil-
derness for nature lovers, Mr. Frederickson says, but he feels
that portions of the park adjacent to residences and, there-
fore, hazardous should be developed for active recreation
uses whenever money is available.

When the Greater Los Angeles Zoo is completed some
time in 1965, Griffith Park will offer recreation and cultur-

RECREATION

 

a1 activities to meet the needs of almost every citizen, Mr.
Frederickson declares. (For more on the new zoo, see “M ulti-
Level Zoo,” RECREATION, June, 1964.)

FLORIDA. A new state park, Washington Oaks Gardens,
was recently donated by Mrs. Owen D. Young, widow of
the former chairman of the board of the General Electric
Corporation. More than six hundred acres are included in
the gift. This property, situated south of Marineland on
AlA, is bounded by the intra-coastal waterway on the west
and the Atlantic Ocean on the east. Several buildings and
improvements are situated on the property. These include
two residences, sheds, workshops, and a greenhouse.

The plant growth in Washington Oaks Gardens State
Park is that common to this coastal region of Florida and
includes live oak, cedar, sabal palmetto, and wild grapes.
Many varieties of exotic shrubbery have been planted in the
park. Several varieties of citrus are flourishing in the area
as well as other fruits such as persimmon, pears, figs, and
grapes.

NEW YORK. The new Nassau County Skeet and Trap

Range-Winchester Gun Club on Long Island offers shooters
from the entire New York metropolitan area both day and
night trap and skeet shooting.

Built by the county, on county pr0perty near Jones Beach,
the new trap and skeet range will be operated under lease to
Claybirds Ltd., a corporation of local businessmen. In ad-
dition to two fields each of trap and skeet, the Nassau Coun-
ty range has two combination fields that are interchange-
able for skeet or trap shooting. All six fields are illuminated
for night shooting. A modern clubhouse, complete with

restrooms and lounge, adjoins a spacious parking lot on
the club grounds.

The new Nassau County club represents the third public
trap and skeet shooting facility opened by the Winchester-
Western Division of Olin Mathieson Chemical Corporation
in the New York Metropolitan area and the fourth in the
nation. The first experimental Winchester gun club was
opened in August 1962, at Thunder Mountain, Ringwood,
New Jersey. The second and third experimental shooting
facilities were opened respectively at Clinton, New Jersey,
and Hurlwood, Texas, in October, 1963.

After evaluation of the successful results achieved by all
three experimental clubs, Winchester-Western has an-
nounced plans to inaugurate a nationwide network of pub-
lic shooting facilities. Under the Winchester franchise gun-
club program, some forty to forty-five clubs are scheduled
to open under franchise to local businessmen by the year’s

end, with projections calling fora total of approximately
four hundred by 1970.

OHIO. A $38,000,000 outdoor recreation program for
Ohio has been announced by Governor James A. Rhodes.
The governor said the program would be provided without
any increased taxes. He pointed out that it would be financed
from part of a recreation outdoor state bond issue approved
by the voters in November. The program is the largest
natural resources capital improvement plan in many years.

NOVEMBER, 1964

 

A new $600,000 feline house was Opened recently as part of
Denver’s Zoological Gardens. The structure is composed of
two wings with fourteen cages. The twin sections of the build-
ing are set apart at a sixty-degree angle, with a paved breeze-
way in between. Denver’s feline house was designed by Me-
Fadzean, Everly & Associates assisted by Alan Petersen.

Although it will cost $13,000,000 more than was provided

for in the bond issue, the balance will be financed from
matching funds presently available to the state. Expected
to take two years to complete, the program will include:

o A total of six thousand additional campsites, ten new
swimming beaches, fifteen new boat docking facilities, an
acquisition of 28,215 acres of land for parks, and eight
new water impoundments.

o The water impoundments will cover 7,517 surface acres
and will provide water for recreation, industrial, and do-
mestic use. The additional forty-three million gallon daily
water supply created by the impoundments could adequately
provide for a community of 430,000.

Although it provides no funds for motels and lodges in
state parks, the program is expected to attract private in-
terests to establish new hotels, motels, restaurants, swim-
ming areas, ski lodges and slopes, and allied service busi-
nesses. Ohio state parks attracted twenty million day
visitors last year who spent an estimated $32,000,000. On

a day-use basis, the program will provide facilities for an
additional 2,800,000 campers, 2,100,000 swimmers, 1,300,-
000 boaters, and 4,400,000 picnickers.

TEXAS. Harris County Stadium in Houston, new home of
the Houston~Colts professional baseball team, protects play-
ers and rooters by a special dome of acoustical absorption
materials and skylights. Sounds of play on the field reach
every spectator without obstruction. To make this possible,
twenty-six batteries of special silencers made by Industrial
Acoustics Company of New York City, muffle any objection-
able noise of the large air-conditioning systems.

The stadium will be cooled and heated with equipment of
approximately six thousand tons of cooling capacity and air
handling systems circulating almost three million cubic feet
of air per minute. IAC silencers control the noise of the fans
located in the equipment rooms under the grandstand risers.

N o more will rain and wind hamper the players—they are
completely enclosed under a large 202-foot-high dome roof
that spans the “field” and up to 65,000-capacity seating
facilities. Even a hurricane won’t stop a game in Houston.
The stadium is designed to withstand hurricane winds gusts
of 165MPH and continuous forces of wind of 135MPH.

471

A

I
Q
I

I
I
I
I
P

RECREATION
DIGEST

‘I. III-
I'll. III.
. ‘III II.’

.II

 

III. ‘II' AIII
II-I. II All...

 

The Oak Park Ice Rink

How attendance and income can be increased and costs decreased

Webbs Norman

1- RTIFICIALLY frozen ice skating rinks are a relatively

new undertaking for park districts. While districts

have provided natural skating surfaces for some
years, many have resisted the artificial rink because it has
been traditionally termed a “white elephant,” a poor finan-
cial investment or an unnecessary facility. It is only in
recent years that park districts have seriously considered
this type of facility as potentially important to their total
winter recreation and sports program.

On November 14, 1962, the Park District of Oak Park,
Illinois, opened the artificially frozen Ridgeland Common
Skating Center. The rink, a part of a recreation complex
which includes an Olympic-size swimming pool and a com-
mon central building, recently completed its second full
season of operation.

After enjoying an overwhelming initial 1962 swimming
season, it was concluded that the skating rink would attract
a similar amount of patronage. This was the first and costly
mistake. There was little or no relationship between swim-
ming pool and skating rink attendance and/ or income. The
two operations were entirely different and would require an
entirely new and individual approach.

The first step in expanding the use of the rink was to
determine those factors preventing its use. Using printed
questionnaires, face-to-face discussions and group inter-
views with school children, civic, and social groups as the
major source of data collected, the following facts were ob-
tained and determined as being the major reasons for pre-
venting more widespread use of the rink.

0 Children and adults did not have sufficient time to skate
regularly during the week thus resulting in small weekday
attendance. Other school, business, and social obligations
were too demanding.

0 Transportation fOr children living beyond walking dis-
tance to the rink proved to be a limiting factor. Parents did
not want their children on the streets after dark.

0 Communications proved diflicult. Despite newspaper pub-
licity, brochures, and direct mailings, many citizens were
totally unaware of the new rink.

0 Fees and charges were too high. It was learned that by
reducing the fees, attendance and income could be increased.

 

 

Digested with permission [ram Illinois Parks, March-April,
1964. MR. NORMAN is the general manager 0/ the Ridgeland
Common Recreation Center, Oak Park, Illinois.

472

0 Rink rules were resented. Many of the children had be-
come accustomed to skating on the natural rinks where no
supervision prevailed.

USING the above information and experience, the second

season’s program was planned. The results are shown
in the chart. As shown, income increased sharply while ex-
penditures were down. The program evaluation paid off
handsomely. Of special significance, based on the findings,
was that the rink could not be operated on a self-supporting
basis from the revenue received from public skating. It was
apparent that the difference between a financial profit and
loss was the development of other revenue-producing activi-
ties and yet provide a balance of the desired services of a
public skating rink. Attendance figures prove that that goal
was accomplished. H

SKATING RINK FINANCIAL REPORT

 

INCOME 1962-63 1963-64
Season Tickets ....___._ 5 7,910.00 $ 4,850.00
Daily Fees _.......___..._-...__..._........._..... 6,324.25 9,118.25
Instruction and Special Rink Programs ..._ 2,437.50 3,584.00
Concessions _._-_..._._---_-_..............__._ 4,585.55 5,469.79
Skate Shop ..._.,--m....___--__- 1,966.44 3,119.32
Locker Fees _ .................... __.._.._ 833.10 1,182.95
Rentals _____________ ...__n..._._....._..._ 3,212.00 7,341.67
Miscellaneous mm...” _____ -........._._ 278.62 82.68
Total ......... .. $27,547.46 $34,748.66
EXPENDITURES 1962-63 1963-64
Personnel
Full-Time ----._..._-.......................___._ $13,079.86 $11,097.06
Part-Time _........_...--._.----..-..-._.--__._.... 9,021.06 5,189.27
Services, Contractual ......__._______.__.. 11,516.60 8,649.93
Commodities _.----_____.__..__. 5,088.49 3,955.03
Total ....__.._._ $38,706.01 $28,891.29

 

Note: The 1962-63 season offered sixteen weeks skating while the 1963-64
season was only fourteen weeks. It is estimated that expenditures will be
reduced to approximately $25,000 for the 1964-65 skating season.

Ridgeland Common operates seven days a week during
the skating season: or a potential total of one hundred hours
per week. During the 1963-64 season, it was used seventy-
two hours per week. On the weekends it was used fifteen
consecutive hours, 8 AM to 11 PM.

One of the most heavily scheduled artificial outdoor rinks
in the Midwest, the rink handled more than six hundred
hockey games during its 1963-64 schedule. Refiecting the
tremendous current interest in hockey, 175 grade-school
boys, 225 high-school students, and 190 adults participated
in the regularly scheduled rink hockey games.

The rental rates for hockey ice time ranged from $12.50

RECREATION

 

Ideally, thirty square feet of ice should be allowed for each person skating.

to $22.50 per hour depending on how prime the time. These
rates applied to unsupervised groups. There was an addi-
tional fee for groups which used the rink on a party basis.
This fee was $75.00 for ninety minutes and included skate
guards, concession and skate shop personnel and police
coverage.

The skate rental and skate sharpening concession are op-
erated by the district. Charge for sharpening hockey and
figure skates is $1.00. A fifty-cent fee is charged for rental
skates. The rink carries a supply of three hundred pairs of
adult and children’s skates. Skate rentals for the year
totaled 3,266. Skate sharpenings totaled 815.

The food concessions are operated by the district and
carry a complete line of light refreshments. By making dual
use of rink personnel and large attendance on Weekends,
we net approximately forty-four percent profit from the
1963-64 concession sales.

THE FIRST TWO SEASONS of operation have been enlighten-
ing and beneficial to the rink operation. Many im-
provements have been made; many more are yet to come.
Many important administrative guidelines have been de-
ve10ped which permit continued improvement in rink serv-
ices. Several of them are summarized as follows:
0 The ideal skating season in terms of highest attendance
and lowest operational costs is from November 15 through
March 1. Interest in recreation skating diminishes rapidly
after the first of February.
0 The public skating schedule will receive the heaviest par-
ticipation during the weekend hours.
0 The ideal rink size, from the standpoint of construction,
Operational and maintenance costs, and programing, is
85’-by-185’, regulation hockey size. This eliminates the

necessity and expense of portable hockey boards and serves
as an excellent traffic control.

NOVEMBER, 1964

o The artificial rink, when compared to other special-
interest recreation facilities, can provide greater recreation
opportunities to more people and at a lower per-capita cost
than can such facilities as gymnasiums, baseball diamonds,
indoor tennis courts, et cetera.

0 The artificial rinks should be covered by a roof structure.
This would permit the Oak Park rink an additional yearly
income of $7,000 and a decrease in expenditures of $2,000.
I The artificial rink, if heavily scheduled, must own an
effective resurfacing machine such as the Zamboni. This
machine permits our rink to be resurfaced forty times per
week at the rate of twelve minutes per resurfacing.

o The ideal skating load for an artificial rink should allow
approximately thirty square feet for each person skating.
Normally, our rink has sixty-live percent on and thirty-five
percent off the ice.

THE RINK STAFF is well aware that no business can be

tested and announced successful in two years. This fact
has hit home on several occasions as artificial rinks in and
around the Chicago area have closed their doors because of
lack of public support. Like any other sound business, an
artificial rink must constantly be aware, striving, develop-
ing and evaluating if it is to survive and provide a vital
service to its constituents. Promotion, planning, public re-
lations, the creation of a pleasant atmosphere, sound finan-
cial practices, effective supervision, constant evaluation and
service are still the keys to a successful artificial skating
rink operation. Then, add scheduling, business-seeking,
hard work, bookkeeping, budgeting, and ingenuity, and one
has a sound formula for continued success. Using these facts
as guidelines, the Park District of Oak Park will continue
to make a vital contribution to the area’s total winter recrea-
tion and sports programs; thus removing any and all doubts

that the recently constructed skating rink is a recreation
“white elephant.” #

473

ARTS 6? CRAFTS CORNER

LET THERE BE LIGHT!

 

CANDLES have come a long way
from the time when they were
only a source of light. Plain or elabo-
rately trimmed, today they can be
found in every size, shape and color
or combination of colors. “Store
bought,” they are very expensive.
“Homemade,” they are inexpensive
and can be just as attractive. This is
not only a creative project, lending
itself to the Christmas season but
most supplies needed are very easy
to find. Candles, used the year-round
for decorative purposes, are espe-
cially apprOpriate at Christmas. Try
to include this project in your pro-
graming. Here is a project for all age groups. Good for
bazaar sale' and fund-raising too.

MATERIALS NEEDED:
Parafiin

 

Small sticks

Rit all-purpose dyes (pencils could be used)

(your choice of colors) Scissors
Cord Double boiler or coffee can

Adhesive tape and glue Spoons

Only a person’s imagination will
limit the possibilities for candle de-
sign. Molds can be milk cartons,
malted milk containers, soup cans or
juice cans, tall or squat coffee cans,
glasses of all sizes and shapes. Small-
er candles can be molded by using
cone paper cups, muffin tins or gela-
tin molds. When melting the paraffin
in the double boiler or coffee can set
in a pan of water, make cartain it
never boils dry. Also do not fill too
full of paraffin as spills can be dan-
gerous. One pound of paraffin will
fill three frozen juice cans; a pound
_ and a half of paraflin will fill a quart
milk carton or eight mufiin tins. One pound of paraHin re-
quires two teaspoons of dye for coloring. After melting the
paraffin, stir in the dye color desired. Remove from the heat
and stir three to five minutes to insure good color dispersion.
Let stand a few minutes before pouring. Lighter dye shades
produce the brightests colors. Colors deepen as the wax
solidifies. For the best results use the following colors: yel-
low, coral, gold, peach, pink, rose, orchid, light blue, tur-
quoise, peacock blue, chartreuse, light green, and jade.

PREPARING THE MOLDS:

1. Punch small hole in the bottom center of can or carton.

2. Run cord through hole up through the mold.

 Tie cord end to pencil or stick and place across top of
mo .

4. Turn mold over, pull taut, and secure with adhesive
tape.

5. Dribble wax over it to seal.

6. For molds that can’t be punctured, cut cord 1” longer,
dip into hot wax, set aside to harden.

7. When candle begins to solidify, push wick into mold.

HINTS:

When using glass containers, warm the glass first for
safety. Be sure candles stand until solid. (A quart milk carton
could take eight to ten hours to solidify.) Unmolding is easy.
Remove adhesive tapes. Peel off paper molds. Metal molds

474

 

can be dipped in hot water fast and immediately turned
upside down for easy removal. Plastic bottles can be slit and
cut away with a razor blade.

DECORATION HINTS:

0 Glitter when sprinkled on the top of an almost hardened
candle will drift gently and suspend in the candle.

- Frosted candles can be achieved by whipping wax that
has begun to congeal and spread on quickly using a spoon
or fingers. If it becomes firm, fnelt, and whip again. Dust
with glitter before completely solid.

0 Poster paint can be used on candles if a liquid deter-
gent is added first. This will make the paint stick to the wax.
0 Holly leaves and/or berries can be made out of par-
tially congealed wax by shaping or cutting. Warming the
ends and applying quickly to candle will make them stick.
0 Almost any materials can be adhered to your candles
by using one of the household glues. We suggest—decals,
braid, rickrack, metallic ribbon, lettering, bells, sequins,
metallic papers, and shells.

SANTA MOBILE

WE DOUBT if mobiles will ever go
out of fashion. They can be
adapted to any theme, scaled to fit any
space, and are successful with any age
group. The following Santa Mobile
came to our attention from a manual
on Christmas Crafts, published by the
Recreation Division of the Welfare De-
partment, Kansas City, Missouri. This
manual of Christmas crafts ideas and
patterns was compiled by Gunter Stave,
arts and crafts supervisor, with contri-
butions from Jeanne Propst and Betty
Long, Christmas crafts specialists for
the Southeast Community Center. The
manual also offers ideas and patterns for
a ribbon rose topiary tree, corsages and
package decorations, a foil paper bird
of paradise, paper sculpture ornaments,
foil paper decorations, and many other
projects. ( The forty-jive-page mimeo-
graphed manual is available for $1.00,
plus $.15 postage, from the Recreation
Division, Kansas City, Missouri, Wel-
fare Department.)

 

SANTA MOBILE

Materials needed:
Construction paper—your choice of colors.
Cotton—for trimming on the coat and hat.

String or cord.

Procedure:
1. Cut two pieces of each shape shown.
2. Attach cord through the center and glue pieces back

to back.
3. Vary the sizes according to the size of the mobile

desired.
To make these mobiles more durable (you might want

to save them from year to year) , cut the shapes out of card-
board ( save that invaluable cardboard that comes with
laundered shirts), covering with construction paper or paint
them with poster paints.

0 Other ideas for making Christmas mobiles, as well as
many other holiday projects, can be found in the Joyful
Christmas Craft Book by Kathryn Holley Seibel (D. Van
Nostrand Company, Princeton, New Jersey, $3.95), which
has l8l pages of ideas using paper, foodstuffs, wood,
straw, shells, cones, nuts, greens, clay, plastic, foil, and
metals.—Ed.

RECREATION

 

B: FOR THE ILL 63 HANDICAPPED

 

'i‘ A community program of recreation
for handicapped children is reported by
John Toffoli, .lr., superintendent of rec-
reation in Richmond, California. The.
recreation department holds a weekly
program on Saturdays from 10AM to
1PM for approximately fifty handi-
capped youths aged five to twenty-two.
These include the mentally retarded,
cerebral palsied, blind, deaf, and those
with neurological handicaps and multi-
ple disabilities. Mr. Toffoli states that
the combined group of persons with dif-
ferent disabilities got along very well
and presented no major problems.
Three staff members and fifteen volun-
teers conduct the program.

The recreation department also pro-
vides a day-camp program for handi-
capped children. Camperships are all
sponsored by local organizations and
the local Easter Seal Society provides
volunteer recruitment and some train-
ing. Both recreational and therapeutic
swimming for the handicapped is pro-
vided in a municipal pool with volun-
teer instructors provided by the Ameri-
can Red Cross chapter. This is a fine
example of the pooling of community
needs of the handicapped.

+ A thirty-minute drama interpreting
the values of homemaker service, To
Temper the Wind, together with acting
directions and a discussion guide, pro-
vides community agencies and other
groups with a vehicle for interpreting
the values of homemaker service as a
flexible, humane, and economical way
of preserving family life for children,
the aging, the chronically ill and dis-
abled. Copies of the play can be or-
dered at $2.00 each for a single perusal
copy and $12.00 for a production kit
of six copies from the National Council
of Homemaker Services, 1790 Broad-
way, New York 10019.

+ The guide on Recreation for the
Homebound Person With Cerebral
Palsy has been in great demand this
past year and has gone into a second
printing. The report was prepared by
the National Recreation Association’s
Consulting Service on Recreation for

the 111 and Handicapped for the United

DR. THOMPSON is director of the Na-
tional Recreation Association’s Con-
sulting Service on Recreation for the Ill

and Handicapped.

NOVEMBER, 1964

Morton Thompson, Ed.D.

Cerebral Palsy Associations, Inc. It is
available for 3.25 by writing to United
Cerebral Palsy Associations, Inc., at
321 West 44th Street, New York, New
York 10036.

+ A guide on Modified Sport and
Games for the Mentally Retarded is be-
ing published by the National Asso-
ciation for Retarded Children. It was
prepared for NARC by Dr. Morton
Thompson of the National Recreation
Association. For further information,

please write NARC, 386 Park Avenue
South, New York, 10016.

+ A Literature Kit, with a variety of
current articles on recreation for the
handicapped, is available from the Con-
sulting Service on Recreation for the
111 and Handicapped of the National
Recreation Association. The kit was re-
vised recently and now includes a num-
ber of new articles dealing with differ-
ent disability groups and different age
levels. Some of the new articles are
Music Fun for All, Edna R. Schweitzer;
Hospital Music Clinic, Stacie V. Bea-
vers; Creative Magic for the Senior C it-
izen, Selma W. Cross; Increasing Socia-
bility for the Retarded through Activity
Programs, Arnold Cortazzo, and Art for
the Exceptional Child, a selected bibli-
ography, Chester Jay Alkema. The lit-
erature kit, which always contains about
twenty-five articles, can be purchased
for $1.50 from the National Recreation
Association, 8 West 8th Street, New
York 10011.

+ The Connecticut State Department
of Health has developed a four-page
pamphlet called Volunteer’s Guide for
Patient Activities Program in nursing

Save
Time
and

Money!

 

Leased FREE!

homes and homes for the aged. The
guide includes rules and regulations for
the volunteer and practical suggestions
for assisting in the recreation program.
For information, write to Department

of Health, Hartford, Connecticut 06515.

'i' A Selected Bibliography of refer-
ences on recreation for the ill and hand-
icapped has been revised and enlarged
by the National Recreation Associa-
tion’s Consulting Service on Recreation
for the III and Handicapped. The bib-
liography now contains over 225 refer-
ences on books, articles, and resources
dealing with recreation for the aging,
physically handicapped, mentally ill,
mentally retarded, and the blind. Cate-
gories are also listed under arts and
crafts, games, and music. The biblogra-
phy is included in the Consulting Serv-
ice’s literature kit ($1.50) and is also
available separately free of charge.

+ A number of special programs for
the handicapped are included in the
community recreation program of the
York, Pennsylvania, Recreation Com-
mission. These include a young Handi-
capped Pe0ple’s Club, a Retarded Chil-
dren’s Club, Hobby Club for the Blind,

and Senior Citizens’ Club.

+ An increase of more than two mil-
lion crippled in the United States in
the last year—from slightly over
19,000,000 to 21,718,000—is reported
by the National Society for Crippled
Children and Adults. This means that
one out of every nine Americans today
faces life with a physical handicap re-
quiring special care. The report pre-
dicts a total of twenty-four million
crippled by 1975. EXpanded efforts of
the society last year resulted in the
treatment of the largest number of
patients in its forty-three-year history.
Some 261,632 crippled children and
adults, 6,719 more than in any previous
year, came to society centers for indi-
vidualized and usually lengthy care.

 

Stop wasting time recording inventory casts,
handing out balls and paying tap prices
for low quality balls. Install this attractive,
cast-cutting TFT Table Tennis Ball Meter
NOWI

teased FREE to responsible agencies an
$10.00 deposit subiect to refund. Trouble-
free operation assured — return machine
for FREE repair. Attractive hard wood and
metal cabinet—7V2 x 8% x 15 inches high.
Easy to install. Holds 120 bolls—dlspenses
each for 10c. Choice of 3 grades of top
quality balls. Use profit to maintain and
replace paddles, nets, etc. No risk guaran-
tee. Send far free folder: “Stop Wasting
Their Time."

T. F. TWARDZIK 8: CO.,

INCORPORATED

SHENANDOAH, PENNA. 17976

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

475

PEOPLE
IN THE NEWS

P ROFESSIONAL recreation leaders, con-
servationists, and a tennis champ are
among the twelve persons recently ap-
pointed by Governor Nelson Rockefel-
ler of New York to the twelve-member
Advisory Committee to the State Rec-
reation Council. Chairman is State
Senator G. Eustis Paine of Wills-
boro. The State Recreation Council was
established by Chapter of the Laws of
1963 and the same law also established
an Advisory Committee of twelve mem-
bers, to be appointed by the governor,
who “broadly reflect the various inter-
ests in aspects of recreation in the state.”
Members serve without compensation.
Beside Senator Paine, the governor’s
other appointees include:

Dr. Sal J. Prezioso of Scarsdale, cur-
rently a county executive officer in
Westchester County. Dr. Prezioso
served as superintendent of recreation
for Westchester County from 1955 un-
til 1962.

Lithgow Osborne of Auburn. From
1933 until 1942, Mr. Osborne was New
York State Commissoner of Conserva-
tion. During World War II, he was
deputy director general of the United
Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Ad-
ministration (UNRRA).

Yale J. Newman, superintendent of
recreation for the city of Long Beach.
He is also vice-president of the New
York State Association of Health, Phys-
ical Education and Recreation and is
president of the Long Island Section of
the same organization.

Deyo W. Johnson of Ellenville. Mr.

Johnson serves as chairman of the El-
lenville Planning Commission and is a
member of the Ellenville Area Develop-
ment Committee.

The Reverend Peter A. \Vard of
Colton, St. Lawrence County. He is a
member of the Adirondack Park Com-
mission and serves as chaplain to the
New York State Conservation Council.

Althea Gibson of Riverdale, the only
woman member. Holder of numerous
tennis championships, Miss Gibson won
the National Clay Court Championship

4-76

in 1957 and the US. National Women’s
grass court title at Forest Hills.

Joseph C. Tisdall of Williamsville,
Erie County. An attorney practicing in
Buffalo, Mr. Tisdall is chairman of the
Erie County Committee to Further the
Use of Schools for Recreation Purposes.

Leon F. Swears of J ohnstown. A for-
mer member of the J ohnstown Board of
Education, Mr. Swears served for eight
years as a commissioner of the New
York State Athletic Commission.

M. Frederick Smith of Shelter Island.

A business executive, Mr. Smith is a di-
rector of the Council of Conservation-
ists and a member of the advisory board
on National Parks, Historic Sites and
Monuments to the US. Department of
the Interior, and also chairman of the
advisory council to the New York State
Conservation Department.

Gene Setzer of Nyack, Rockland
County. Mr. Setzer is chairman of the
board of directors of the National Au-
dubon Society.

Assemblyman Robert Watson Pom-
eroy of Wassaic, Dutchess County.
Long active in the field of conservation
and recreation, Assemblyman Pomeroy
serves as chairman of the New York
State Joint Legislative Committee on
Natural Resources.

Frank D. Cos-

grove is the new
national executive
director of Ameri-
can Youth Hostels.
Prior to his ap-
pointment, Mr.
Cosgrove had been
director of parks and recreation in War-
ren, Michigan, since 1956. Before that,
he was director of recreation in Clifton,
New Jersey. In 1955, he was selected
“The Outstanding Director of Recrea-
tion” in the state of New Jersey. He has
served as vice-president of the New Jer-
sey Recreation Association and was
chairman of the research committee for
the Recreation Association of Michigan.
Mr. Cosgrove replaces Justin Cline, who
has been appointed national director of

development of AYH.

 

Smith Falconer, superintendent of
recreation with the Maric0pa County,
Arizona, parks and recreation depart-

ment since 1960, has been appointed
director of regional parks for San Ber-
nardino County, California. In his new
position he will be reSponsible for a re-
gional park system in the largest county
in the U.S., stretching from San Ber-
nardino to the Colorado River. Mr.
Falconer started as acquisition and con-
tracts administrator with the Maric0pa
County parks department in March
1959 and became superintendent of rec-
reation in August 1960.

William T. Martin, Jr. is the new as-
sistant executive director of the Georgia
Recreation Commission, a post recently
created by the ten-member commission.
Mr. Martin, a native of Statesboro,
Georgia, received his BS. in recreation
administration from Georgia Southern
College. He has just recently completed
a year of study at the University of
North Carolina where he has been work-
ing toward a master’s degree in recrea-
tion. During his undergraduate work,
he was employed on a full-time basis by
the Statesboro Recreation Department.

Lou Presti, director of recreation in
Largo, Florida, recently received a cita-
tion from the Florida Council for Re-
tarded Children, in recognition of the
recreation programs he has set up for
retarded children and adults. The Lar-
go Recreation Department provides the
retarded with instruction in bowling,
golf, tennis, basketball, and swimming.
Other activities offered retarded groups
have included free movies, dances, pot-
luck suppers, table tennis, billiards, and
weightlifting.

 

IN MEMORIAM

 

o N. CONANT WEBB of Montclair, New
Jersey, died recently at the age of sixty-
three. A former town commissioner,
Mr. Webb had served as a local sponsor
of the National Recreation Association.
As Montclair’s director of parks and
public property from 1956 to 1960, he
made many lasting contributions to the
community’s recreation development
and many friends in the recreation field.
The Webb family has been a strong
supporter of the NRA and the national
recreation movement since the early
nineteen hundreds.

RECREATION

 

A REPORTER’S NOTEBOOK

 

Going Like Ninety
D ID YOU get up this morning feeling
run-down, tired before the day
starts? You need exercise! This ad-
vice is given by residents of the Colum-
bia Conference Home for the Aged in
Seattle, Washington. Every Monday
and Thursday morning, about 30 of
these “young” people of the Lutheran
Home oin together for thirty minutes
of simple exercises and relaxation. This
may not be so unusual but for the fact
that the youngest of the group is sixty-
nine, the oldest ninety-six.

The exercises are directed toward
stimulating the circulation and toning
the muscles not often used by senior
citizens. Three residents take turns in-
structing and leading the group to the
tune of military marches and a lively
one-two-three.

The moral to the story is if you can’t
bend over and touch your toes with
your hands, remember there are pe0ple
at the Columbia Conference Home in
their nineties who can do it with case!

They Know the Ropes
THEY MAY BE landlocked but twenty-

six teenagers in the town of State
College, Pennsylvania, are no longer
landlubbers. They took advantage of a
sailing program offered high-school stu-
dents for the first time this summer at
the State University’s Stone Valley Rec-
reation Area, developed on reclaimed
land. Twenty-one of the teenagers qual-
ified for a “skipper’s” certificate at the
end of the five-week summer course
which was cosponsored by the State
College Area Park and Recreation De-
partment and the College of Physical
Education and Athletics at the univer-
sity. Among the instructors were Fred
M. Coombs, professor of physical ed-
ucation at the university; Donald
Schmidt, assistant recreation director
in State College; and Douglas Schmidt,
a State College recreation department
assistant.
The sailing classes were part of a
highly successful summer program in
the State College area, reports Recrea-

NOVEMBER, 1964

 

tion Director John Dittmar. Increases
in registration were recorded in both
tennis and music instruction. Among
popular special events were a fishing r0-
deo, Junior Olympics, teen-age dances,
games tournaments, and many, many
picnics.

o For more on the Stone Valley Rec-

reation Area, see “Reclaimed for Rec-
reation," Recreation, January 1962.

-—Ed .

For Fun and Profit
A THREE-DAY Recreation WorkshOp
sponsored recently by the Arkan-
sas Council of Home Demonstration
Clubs at Camp Couchdale included
sessions on recreation for senior citi-
zens, leadership training, and develop-
ment of lay leaders. Ages of participants
ranged from twenty-five to eighty-four.
Among those on the workshOp staff
were Carolyn Carroll, the council’s rec-
reation and rural arts chairman; Hazel
C. Jordon, state home-demonstration
agent; George Metzler, recreation spe-
cialist for the state Extension Service;
Betty Miller, national training consult-
ant of the National Recreation Associa-
tion; and E. J. Williamson of the Divi-
sion of Resource Development and Pub-
lic Affairs, Federal Extension Service,
U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Miss Miller gave sessions on leader-
ship techniques and program planning
for different age groups, on how to lead

 at;

1 ..  .1

At Arkansas Recreation Workshop, Mrs.
Carolyn Carroll pins corsage on Aloha
shirt worn by NRA’s national training
consultant Betty llliller. 0n the left is
Gene Illitchell, assistant camp director.

a song, and demonstrated how to make
drums, rhythm instruments, and bean
bags. Mr. Williamson discussed facili-
ties for farm vacations.

The workshop’s theme was “Recrea-
tion for Fun and Profit.” Forty-six
Arkansas counties were represented by
eighty-four delegates who will be re-
sponsible for follow-up workshops in
their counties and local clubs.

Backyard Parks
THE PRESIDENT of one of New York

City’s largest residential real-estate
brokerage houses has preposed a
scheme to reclaim slum backyards from
weeds, rubbish, and prowling cats. Ac-
cording to The New York Times, Ed-
ward Sulzberger, president of Nassoit-
Sulzberger and Company, suggests a
partnership of three city departments,
several community organizations, and
individual property owners to create
parks and playgrounds inside selected
blocks in deteriorated areas.

The municipal Department of Real
Estate, which has authority to lease land
for public purposes, would rent the va-
cant backyard space from each landlord
for a nominal sum. The community
groups and the Department of Sanita-
tion would clear the selected backyards.
Under the supervision of the Depart-
ment of Parks, the strips would be land-
scaped for use as playgrounds and quiet
areas by the residents of the block and
the surrounding neighborhood.

Jottings on the Cuff

0 New York City patrolman James
Dixon builds model ships out of shirt
cardboard. Startlingly accurate and
detailed, the ships are finished off with
coatings of sealer and paint to complete
the illusion of reality. Patrolman Dixon
scales his models three inches for a hun-

dred feet.
0 The problem of what to do with

clothes left at swimming pools has
plagued the recreation department in
Concord, New Hampshire, for many
years. From now on, a clothesline with
all unclaimed items will be hung up
every Thursday.

477

MARKET NEWS

 

o CHANGEOVER. By using Icemaster, a low-cost sheeting
made of a tough white, heavy-gauge vinyl plastic, you can
convert recreation areas, such as tennis courts, basketball
courts, athletic fields, and other flat terrain, into skating
rinks for the winter season. Direct contact of ice with dirt,
asphalt, and other surfaces that absorb heat causes pre-
mature melting. These surfaces absorb enough heat to make
ice unsuitable for continued skating use. Icemaster provides
a better and longer season because it acts as an insulator
while its white surface reflects heat. Tests indicate that with
the use of Icemaster, thirty-five to two hundred percent
additional skating time is possible.

Besides the obvious safety factor of this method as op-
posed to ponds and lakes, Icemaster offers the advantage of
harder, clearer ice. It can be installed quickly, easily, and
at low cost. It is resistant to tears and cuts because of its
heavy-gauge construction and is available for any size field.
Write to Staff Industries, Inc., 78 Dryden Road, Upper
Montclair, New Jersey 07043 for complete details.

0 FOR BANG-UP PLAY. A new table-tennis table, approved
by the United States Table Tennis Association, was designed
to withstand the most rugged tournament-type play. It folds
in the center for quick, compact storage. An absence of
catches, latches, and locks provides a safety factor that
virtually eliminates the possibility of handling accidents.
Designed for use indoors and out, the five-by-nine-foot table
has a rugged fourteen-gauge steel frame combined with a
three-quarter-inch banded resin-wood playing surface fin-
ished in flat green with white court lines. Three-inch rubber
casters facilitate mobility. Further details may be had by
writing to Sico, Inc., 5215 Eden Avenue South, Minneapolis

55424.

0 N0 CRACKS, PLEASE! Leaking basement walls, swimming
pools and boat hulls; cracked masonry walls and sidewalks;
slippery ramps, decks, and wharves all are problems easily
solved with a new multi-purpose epoxy sealer. The new re-
pair material, Devcon Epoxy Sealer, is designed to be ap-
plied with a paint brush and is guaranteed to produce a per-
manent, waterproof bond on concrete, cinder block, steel,
stone, or wood. Mixed with sand, the non-shrinking materi-
al may be used to fill deep cracks in sidewalks or to provide
a ceramic-type coating for shower stalls, wash tubs, or gar-
den pools. The new sealer is five times stronger than con-
crete and will withstand water pressure of more than four
tons per square foot. The product is unaffected by wide
extremes in temperature, gasoline, oil, and most chemicals,
and it may be colored permanently by adding blue, green,

or gray concentrates to the sealer and hardening agent dur-
ing the mixing process. Devcon Epoxy Sealer comes in
“piggy-back” re-sealable cans so that a maintenance man
may mix as much as he needs for a specific job. For further
information write to the Devcon Corporation, Danvers,
Massachusetts.

0 GLIDE-ABOUTS. Zoos, botanical gardens, parks, scenic
areas, amusement and exhibition grounds, county and state
fairs could use the new Clarktour (a touring unit and one,
two, or three trailers as shown), an attractive, safe (8MPH)
passenger carrier designed to move passengers quickly and
comfortably on short hauls. One version, the “Glide-a-
Ride,” is transporting visitors at the New York World’s Fair.

;-,.I_._.w..._._..~..-Fm---.m aw“ ' ’
.. .- "W?-

 

A three-trailer unit, about sixty-eight feet long with tractor,
seats sixty to seventy-five persons. Cover can be provided
for inclement weather. For further information, write the

Industrial Truck Division, Clark Equipment Company, Bat-
tle Creek, Michigan 49016.

0 OUTDOOR POWER. A new series of protected power serv-
ice centers, specifically designed for marinas and other out-
door applications, such as trailer parks, campsites, farms,
construction camps, et cetera are designed to facilitate in-
stallation and use at outdoor locations. Each power center
includes a cast aluminum mounting bracket that is threaded
to accept an inch and a half conduit. The conduit can be
mounted to a dock or other structure by a flange. It serves
not only as the whole support but also to carry power to the
unit. Thus, one simple operation provides easy mounting
and means for electrical connection to under-dock or other
types of wiring systems. Posts, stanchions, and the need for
carpentry or other labor are eliminated.

The Heinemann Series R5 enclosures are constructed of
sturdy, 16-gauge steel, rustproofed and finished in baked-on
enamel. They are of NE WA Type 3R, raintight. Enclosure
dimensions are 1314” - by - 61/1” - by - 41/2” (height, width,
depth). The mounting bracket adds 3%, inches to the depth.

A new publication, Bulletin 1020, offers further informa-
tion on the R5 power units. Copies are available on request
from Heinemann Electric Company, 726 Magnetic Drive,

Trenton, New Jersey 08602.

For further information, please write directly to source given and mention RECREATION Magazine.

478

RECREATION

RESOURCE GUIDE

 

 

INDEX TO ADVERTISERS

Page
American Athletic Equipment ___,-_...._.._. 432
American locker ..____--..-..._._-_..........__...__ 429

American Playground Device
____---_-_--_._.----_..__.__._-.._-_ Inside Back Cover

Creative Playthings _.----__-_c__--_-..--__-__.__ 481
Flickertail Sports .......... ____.._..___. 483
H 8. R Manufacturing _. ........... -......_._._...- 438
Handweaver 8. Craftsman -____._----_...__.___-c 483
Jamison Manufacturing _.._._.--__.-.____.__. 429
Keep America Beautiful _______ _-._ 432 8.439
Kwikbilt ___...._.___ _--_._-..._.-..._....._c__.____ 432
Mason Candies  438
Monroe Co. ____________________________ _.....___ 438
NRA District Conferences ___._ Inside Back Cover
National Retarded Children’s Week ____._ 436
Pipo mum“.We-..“-_-_.---_---_...-_____ 481
Plume Trading Co. .....___.._..-_...-..__..___. 438
Savage Anschutz --._--__---_-.._-__--.._..__-_... 432
Sentinel lockers --_.--_--.._-__--.._._..._._...__ 450
Staff Industries _-__._______.--_....-_-_-.....__.. 432
Tandy leather _--_-_._____..-----__.._---_..._____. 469
Toilaflex .___......_-___-_____--_ Inside Back Cover
T. F. Twardzik __________________ __ 475
United Fund _.._____.-_.__-...__ 432 8. Back Cover

 

 

Your gift speaks for America
when you feed hungry people
with $1 Food Crusade packages
through CARE, New York 10016.

NOVEMBER, 1964

 AIDS—Please Write Directly T 0 Sources Given
——and mention RECREATION Magazine

ARTS AND CRAFTS

Everything except nutshells. large variety of
mixed shells, cut shells, flower construction
shells, and drilled shells. Also pearl strips
(2 x 6% inches) or by the yard. Send for 52-
page catalogue (#18) to Don-Dee Shellcraft,
646 North Grandview, Daytona Beach, Florida.

Create in a creative atmosphere! Cabinets,
benches, horses, easels, sinks, drowing tables,
clay bins, storage cases, all-purpose tables,
wall units, and eight different and complete
floor plans for your arts-and-crafts department
and related activities. For complete informa-
tion, write to Hamilton Manufacturing Company,

Two Rivers, Wisconsin. (Ask for catalogue
#AL-481.)

Heartfelt need. While many proiects call for
felt, it is not always easy to find in a variety of
colors. A thirty-two color-swatch card with price
listings is available from the Continental Felt

Company, 22 West 15th Street, New York
10011.

Fountain art pen. The new Penagraphic, an
India-ink art pen offers artists and draftsmen
a wide variety of working tools. It accepts
eighteen nibs in four categories: technical,
writing-drawing, brush, and music. For further
information, write to the Rumrill Company Inc.,
300 East 42nd Street, New York 10017.

Attention, rockhounds! An excellent and com-
plete two hundred-page catalogue and guide of
the rockhaunding, gem cutting, Iapidary and
iewelry arts is available by writing to Grieger's
Inc., 1633 East Walnut Street, Pasadena, Cali-
fornia. (Ask for Catalogue #263.)

Real find. A versatile product called Treasure
Gold decorates, highlights, or "antiques" pic-
ture frames, figurines, furniture, lamps, ‘metal-
ware, plastic flowers, wood, leather, and ceramic
obiects. It will also restore gold leaf. Treasure
Gold may also be used with stencils for simple
or intricate patterns on trays, chairs, lamp
shades, et cetera. After application it can be
lacquered, varnished, or sprayed. It comes in
four shades of gold plus silver, copper, brass
and pewter. Write to the Connoisseur Studio,
Inc., P.O. Box 7187, Louisville, Kentucky, for
complete information.

Wood you know? Wooden items for those in-
terested in the decorative arts include boxes of
all sizes and shapes and designs, salt and pep-
pers, bookends, waste baskets, coasters, letter-
holders, place mats, slicing boards, trays, can-
delabras, albums, spice racks, bowls, rings,
buttons, belt blocks. All the equipment and sup-
plies you need to do your own creative and im-
aginative decorating can be found in a new
twenty-three page catalogue (#65) available
from O-P Craft Company, Inc., Sandusky, Ohio.

MAINTENANCE. STORAGE. UPKEEP

Blow your stock to a paint (ob! Silicone-
based paints, formulated with silicone resins
derived from sond by a complex chemical
processing, protect stacks, exhausts, mufflers,
furnaces, boilers, incinerators, ovens, heat ex-
changers and combustion chambers at tempera-
tures up to 1200 F. They are available in a
variety of colors. An attractive brochure giving
further information can be obtained from Dow
Corning, Midland, Michigan. (They will also
send you a list of suppliers.)

Don’t be floored! Check the revised "Stand-
ard Specifications" brochure for Northern hard
maple, beech, and birch Roaring. The new hard-
wood flooring technical brochure includes the
revised grading rules as established by the as-
sociation, effective July 1, 1964. In addition to
detailed interpretation of the MFMA official
rules for grading hardwood Hooring, the text
includes information on the physical character-
istics of the species used in flooring manufac-
ture, quality control in force at the mills, thick-
nesses and face widths available, uses of the
different grades, the table to use in order to
ascertain the quantity of flooring required and
the official rules governing reinspectian of floor-
ing. Single copies of the A.I.A. file-size four-
color booklet can be obtained from the Maple
Flooring Manufacturers Association, 35 East
Wacker Drive, Chicago 60601.

Electronically pure. Your water can be purified
by ultra-violet radiation which destroys all bac-
teria, viruses, algae, and mold. Permanent in-
stallation or portable. Suitable for swimming
pools, camps, hospitals, or institutions. For
further information and descriptive literature,
write to Ruffin Industries, 300 South Florence,

El Paso, Texas 79901.

Fireproof. New eight-page booklet On How to
Fight a Small Fire takes the mystery out of
portable fire extinguishers. lts message is
written in authoritative straight talk with illus-
trations that can be quickly recalled in a fire
situation. Write for a sample copy and quantity
prices from Dray Publications, Fire and Accident
Division, Deertield, Massachusetts 01342. (Also
ask about a pamphlet on Your Fire Department.
Very worthwhile.)

PROGRAM AIDS

In tempo. Recordings especially designed for
creatIVe dance and ballroom classes. Also, 0
selection of lP's for dance parties with a fox-
trot, twist, polka, folk dance, waltz, limbo, and
march all on the same disc. For more informa-
tion, write to Hector Records, Waldwick, New

Jersey.

Split seconds. Anyone who participates in or
leads various exacting sports or has hobbies
that require "timing" will be interested in a

479

new twelve-page booklet explaining the use of
chronographs and stapwatches. The booklet also
describes the various types of timers. Printed
in Switzerland, The Measurement of Short Time
intervals is yours free by writing to Heuer Timer
Corporation, Publications Director, 441 lexing-
ton Avenue, New York 10017.

Know your atoms. United World Films has been
selected by the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission
to distribute free to approved nan-theatrical
groups the more than two hundred 16MM sound
films produced for this government agency. De-
signed to serve as an important part of the
commission's information and education pro-
gram, the films explain various aspects of atomic
energy and are grouped in two separate cata-
logues, one grOup designated as films for the
professional level and the other comprising films
for the nonprofessional or popular level. Some
subiects are cleared for TV use and are so desig-
noted in the catalogues. Groups interested in
arranging for the free loan of these films and
the scheduling of exhibition dates may obtain
further information by writing to United World
Films, Inc. (Free Film Dept.), 221 Park Avenue
South, New York 10003.

SPGRTS AND MISCELLANEOUS EQUIPMENT

Tenting tonight? Looking for a tent that sleeps
two to eight persons? A pup tent? A wall tent?
Umbrella tent? Cottage tent? Cabin tent? Screen
house or lodge? These are now available in
pastel colors or two-tone combinations. Also
accessories—aluminum double deck or single
cats, sleeping bags, mattresses, et cetero. Write

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

RATES: Words in regular type $.15 eaeh
Words in bo dface type $25 each

RATES: Minimum ad accepted  $3.00

CORY: Type—or clearly print—your message and the address to which you wish
rephes sent. Underhne any words you want to appear in boldface type.

Send copy with remittance to:

to Hoosier Tents, l302-iO West Washington
Street, indionapolis 6. (Ask for Catalogue
64Tl.)

Bar exam. Brightly chromed horizontal bars are
the latest in a new line of economically priced
Olympic standard gymnastic equipment. Cables
and fittings are also plated and the bar is ad-
iustoble from 36” to 8'6”, is 941/2" in length,
and has a diameter of 11/3" to meet Olympic
specifications. Weight is 130 pounds. For fur-
ther information write to Gymnastic Supply
Company, 247 West Sixth Street, San Pedro,
California.

instructive platform. New cushioned platforms
for spotting and instruction on the trampoline
called Saf-T-Sides are ideal for close-in spotting
and also serve as a ready station for students
between turns. The nylon-vinyl covered uro-
thane foam pads are supported by an auxiliary
steel framework which attaches on both sides of
the trampoline. For further information, write
to Nissen Corporation, 930 27th Avenue S.W.,
Cedar Rapids, Iowa.

Swedish gym is a circuit training obstacle course,
a combination of the balance beam, parallel
bars, wide overhead ladder, fireman's pole,
chinning bars, stall bars, overhead bar, law bar,
and rectangles. Measuring 121/; feet wide and
221/; feet long, it can be used by all age
groups. Detailed information can be obtained
by Writing to The Delmer F. Harris Company,
P.O. Box 288, Concordia, Kansas.

DEADLINES: Copy must be received by
the fifth of the month preceding date of

the issue in which ad is desired.

RECREATION Classified Advertising, 8 West 8th Street, New York, New York 10011.

 

Salesman. Largest manu-
facturer and distributor of
arts and crafts materials in
New England is looking for
part-time salesmen in the
East to call on recreation
and park departments,
YMCA’s and other recrea-
tion facilities and camps.
Commission basis. Selected
territories are available.
Must h a v e experience.

Please send details to Box
C11, Recreation Magazine.

Position available for ex-
perienced craftsman in
dynamic setting to instruct
and coordinate a crafts pro-
gram in residential commu-
nity for active retired per-
sons. Excellent equipment
for wide variety of crafts
including ceramics, weav-
ing, enameling, painting,
woodcarving, jewelry, lapi-
d a r y. Quality standards
high. Other professional

stag includes social work-
ers, recreation and medical
staii. Located in Palm
Beach County with desir-
able year-round climate,
near Atlantic Ocean. At-
tractive fringe benefits,
housing available, if de-
sired. Write giving train-
ing, specialty, experience.
Mamie Jo Gillespie, Social
Service Director, Salhaven
Foundation, Inc., Box 937,
Jupiter, Florida 33458.

President wanted new
School of Forestry with or
without investment. Open-
ing 1965. Box 56, Crown
Point New York.

Therapists for California
State Hos itals. Opportu-
nities to an and conduct
individu patient recrea-
tion as well as special
group activities; modern

equipment and facilities.
Positions open to college
graduates with major in
recreation or recreation
therapy including super-
vised field work. Salary
range: $486 to $590 a
month. Promotional oppor-
tunities, attractive employee
benefits. Write: Medical
Personnel Services. Cali-
fornia State Personnel
Board, 801 Capitol Mall,
Sacramento, California

95814.

POSITIONS WANTED

Administrator and direc-
tor experienced in youth
program, group work and
recreation wants a dynamic
position with a youth cen-
ter, in community or indus-
trial recreation, or with a
community council organi-
zation. Write to Box 81],
Recreation Magazine.

The pitan “mean no rupcmm'baitv for service. or itm advertised fun.

480

 

 

LOW-COST ADS

Order these resources and references di-
rectly from source given (enclose remittance).

Attention, babysitters! There are more than a
million teenage babysitters in the United States
today. A special guide entitled When Teen-
agers Take Care of Children places heavy em-
phasis an the things the sitter needs to know
to ensure the safety of babies and young chil-
dren. There are special painters for girl sitters
and for bay sitters (who are increasing in num-
berl. Included are chapters on getting along
with parents, getting along with children, hints
on play, feeding, safety, baby care, putting
children to bed, and what to do in emergencies.
Single copies are available for $.25 from the
Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government
Printing Otiice, Washington 25, D.C.

A dime's warthl Ten build-it-yourself proiects
in an attractive 35-page booklet include plans
for a sand box, wall-hanging desk, colonial
bookshelf, patio table and benches, shelf units,
toy chest, multi-purpose bench, barbecue cart,
student's study center, and gun-and-rod cabinet.
Plans include assembling instructions, materials
list, finishing tips, and a very interesting wood
guide which gives facts about the strength, nail-
ability, workability, finishing, and gluing of
various woods. This booklet is available from
Western Wood Products Association, Yeon
Building, Portland, Oregon, for $.10.

Brimful of artistic holiday designs and creative
ideas, a new sixteen-page, full-color booklet,
Do-lt-Yourself Christmas Decorations, shows you
how best to use styrofoam and other decorating
materials. The booklet is available for $.35
from Croft House, International Assemblix Car-
paration, 328 North Westwoad Avenue, Toledo,

Ohio.
0

Not sa-easy—to-findl Glossy surface pencils,
asbestos squares, American Indian-design cop-
per enameling blanks, burlap by the yard with
at least ten colors to select from, assorted wood-
en beads in cedar or black walnut, imported
wooden dall heads, bamboo beads, and stencils
for draftsmen, architects, engineers, and letter-
ing guides in Gothic, Roman, or Old English
styles. For complete i50-page catalogue in-
cluding instructions, send $.50 to The House of
Wood and Crafts, 3408-12 North Holtan Street,
Milwaukee 12, Wisconsin.

Four keys to creativity. A brand-new package
of four filmstrips, a culmination of the Girl
Scouts Arts Caravan Project, was planned for
use in art workshops, training sessions, in
group proiects and classes, and by leaders as
a “help-yourself" introductory course in four
areas of creative expression. The four filmstrips,
all 35MM-color, include Creative Stitchery, for
the novice with the needle or the skilled hand;
Puppets in Shadow, something new in creative
dromotics: Paper Sculpture, a colorful introduc-
tion to an intriguing art; and Displays and Ex-
hibits, a real self-help aid. AVoiloble far spe-
clol package price of $15 (or $5 if ordered
separately) , from the Audio-Visual Service Mo-
terials, Girl Scouts of the U.S.A., 830 Third
Avenue, New York 10022.

RECREATION

CONCERNING UPKEEP

 

Rinse Rust Away

RUST can now be removed by rinsing
it off with water. The simple proc-
ess requires only that a layer of jelly be
applied directly on the rust by brush,
roller, trowel, spray or dip, and then
rinsed off with ordinary water. The re-
sult is bare metal, ready for coating. It
removes rust from iron, steel, stainless
steel, brass, copper, bronze, concrete
and tile.

The rust remover has been applied
satisfactorily to the stainless steel Uni-
sphere at the New York World’s Fair
by the American Bridge Company. In-
itially, the United States Steel subsidi-
ary removed corrosion from the bright
Fair symbol by sand blasting, changing
to the rust remover when it was made
available.

In its present form, the rust remover
does not affect existing paint, it removes
only the rust. When applied to rust
stains on concrete, the rust can be rinsed
off almost immediately. The stain van-
ishes instantly. 0n stainless steel, the
substance is daubed on with a cloth or
brush and can be flushed or wiped off
immediately or afterward with a wet
cloth, removing corrosion and dull sur-
face film. For bronze, copper and brass,
the substance can be flushed off, leaving
the original finish. For iron and steel,
the product is applied to a depth of
about an eighth of an inch and allowed
to remain on for a period of from twen-
ty minutes, for light rust, to several
hours for deep corrosion and mil scale.
Before rinsing off, a test can be made
by wiping off a small area with a wet
cloth for evidence of bare metal.

Several hours is usually the maximum
for the removal of deep pits and mil
scale. If the compound is rinsed pre-
maturely, it can be recoated briefly for
additional treatment. If left on for a
needlessly long period, discoloration
may recur; this may be removed by a
touch-up which can be flushed off
quickly.

The bare metal is etched suliiciently
to provide a bond for the prime coating.
Two primers are available to protect the
new surface. One is a “water-clear”

NOVEMBER, 1964

coating. The other is a furan-based
sealer. Coverage is 700 and 350 square
feet of surface per gallon, each com-
patible with other coatings such as
paints, epoxies, and furans.

The rust remover costs about six
cents a square foot for iron and steel
and slightly more for the stainless-steel
rust remover. The concrete and tile
product is mustard-like in appearance.
The rust remover for stainless steel is
black but may be changed in the future
to steel grey or white. The application
for ferrous metals is light brown.

Inquiries may be addressed to West-

inghouse Building, Suite 914, Att: Rust
Dept., 150 Broadway, New York 10007.

Dawn-to-Dusk Lighting

THE NUMBER of electric utilities offer-
ing dusk-to-dawn lighting tariffs is
expected to double this year. The sub-
j ect of all-night illumination is covered
in a comprehensive new monograph de-
voted to Area Lighting with Vertical
Mercury Lamps. Conceived as a source-
book for executives of two hundred
power companies presently providing
private-area lighting on an unmetered,
fixed-tariff basis, the new brochure is
available in limited quantity to others
concerned with all-night illumination
and outdoor lighting installations. Olii-
cially designated by the Edison Electric
Institute as “dusk-to-dawn” lighting,
area lighting service is rendered by
major electric utilities on the basis of
monthly rates. ‘
The new publication presents concise
discussion of equipment, refractors,
lamps, and efficient lighting distribu-
tion patterns for large and small areas.
Photographs and lighting diagrams are
included. Copies of the area-lighting
brochure may be obtained without

charge from the Holophane Company,
Newark, Ohio.

Tipoii'

0 Rubberized pails last much longer
than galvanized, especially when used
for chlorine, reports Pat LaChance,

maintenance superintendent in Con-
cord, New Hampshire.

LWER C

STS

on Table Tennis Balls

AS LOW AS $8

As America's
largest distribu-

.19

A GROSS

tor of table tennis balls (selling DIRECT to
customers) we can otter unmatched low
prices in any quantity. Quality guaran-
teed in writing to have correct bounce and
give long service.

And Earn

330% PROFIT

 

Machine pays for itself in a
few months or your money
refunded. Write for details.

P|P0

NEW PLAY

SGU LPTU RES
CATALOG

With This

Silent.
Salesman

this sturdy.
tamper - proof
coin Operated
machine sells
PIPO balls for
10¢ each. In
addition to the
sales profit.
you eliminate
costly check-
ing {in and out
otballs.

882 Massachusetts Ave.
Indianapolis. Indiana

 

 

Creative Playthings, Inc.
PRINCETON 1, N. J.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

481

NEW PUBLICATIONS

 

Recreation and the Schools, Richard
G. Kraus. Macmillan Company, 60
Fifth Avenue, New York 10011. Pp.
320. $5.00.

DR. KRAUS has given us a definitive
work that examines the history of,
and the current reasoning involved in,
leisure education. The text is divided
into three major areas of interest, cov-
ering the problems of leisure and rec-
reation in modern society, the process
of leisure education, and the role of the
public schools in providing or assisting
in community recreation sponsorship.

Since public recreation must be paid
for by the taxpayer in every case, under
what administrative auspices is the rec-
reation tax dollar most wisely spent?
In a considerable number of communi-
ties and education districts, the public
schools have assumed the task of spon-
soring or cosponsoring local recreation
programs. More and more professional
recreation administrators have come to
see this as an undesirable trend, provid-
ing inadequate services and undercut-
ting recreation as an independent, es-
sential public service.

Which point of view is correct? The
author’s conclusions might disappoint
ardent protagonists on each side, for
he pr0poses no single solution. Aimed
at a problem which has existed for over
fifty years, Dr. Kraus has managed to
treat it in an unbiased manner. Both
sides of the issue and the facts support-
ing each position are thoroughly and
critically revealed. Much of the specific
information regarding practices and at-
titudes of school administrators, mu-
nicipal recreation directors, school
recreation departments, and recreation
educators is derived from five extensive
surveys carried out by the author in
1962 and 1963. Full tabulations of these
investigations appear in the appendix
and many references to them appear
throughout the text.

Also presented for the readers atten-
tion is a description of the elementary-
school curriculum in which play activi-
ties are used as a means of motivating
children and promoting learning, even
in clearly academic subject areas. These
practices are analyzed within a number
of subject fields: arithmetic, science,
social studies, language arts, physical
education, music, and outdoor educa-
tion and camping. In addition, co-

482

o

curricular and after-school programs

are described, as they contribute to
goals of leisure education.

Regarding leisure education in sec-
ondary schools and colleges, the author
feels that physical educators need to do
a more effective job of preparing stu-
dents for leisure involvement and en-
couraging them to participate in the
physical recreation opportunities that
are available within the co-curricular
program. I recommend this text for the
professional recreation administrators
library.——Donald V. Joyce, Director,
Correspondence and Consultation Serv-
ice, National Recreation Association.

Cities and Space: The Future Use of
Urban Land, Essays from the. Fourth
Annual Resources for the Future For-
um, Lowdon Wingo, Jr., Editor. John
HOpkins Press, Baltimore, Maryland

21218. Pp. 261, illustrated. $5.50.

THIS COLLECTION of papers, present-
ed at a symposium conducted in
1962 by Resources for the Future, Inc.,
gives a variety of viewpoints. Several
of the contributors are city or regional
planners, one is a lawyer, another a
psychiatrist, two are economists.

The editor states “This book ad-
dresses a set of problems that are pre-
empting more and more of the atten-
tion of our society and confounding its
collective wisdom . . . the birth of a
metropolitan civilization.” It is a pity,
therefore, that Mr. Wingo, who is re-
search associate with Resources of the
Future, did not also include the view-
point of a park or recreation planner
or of at least one person more con-
cerned with the values of open space
for recreation—particularly under such
topics as “Importance of Open Space in
the Urban Pattern” or “Social Fore-
sight and the Use of Urban Space.”
The only reference to recreation in
these two occurs in the former, when
Stanley B. Tankel, planning directOr of
the Regional Plan Association of New
York City, refers to RPA estimate of a
greatly increased demand for swim-
ming, golf, boating, and a “whole range
of natural area activities within fifteen
or twenty minutes of home, in part be-
cause of the increased half-day use on
weekdays which we foresee.” Mr. Tank-
el goes on, “This, to a large extent, will
be a county responsibility, and we have
estimated requirements at twelve acres

per thousand population which works

out to more than five percent of a coun-
ty’s land area for the counties in the
New York region . . . Open space will
present the county with quite a chal-
lenge.”

Again, under the t0pic, “The Human
Measure: Man and Family in Megalop-
olis,” Dr. Leonard J. Duhl, a psychia-
trist, says: “Too often society finds
ways of drumming more information
and experience into people than they
can handle. How can space utilization
provide a respite? A society which
provides recreation, open space, and
perhaps vacation retreats cheaply and
close to centers of work and living of-
fers such respite. A society which pro-
vides this resource to only selected seg-
ments of our population is failing to
meet its responsibility. Open space,
when once it is experienced, can rarely
be replaced. It provides for us that con-
tinuity with the past which our person-
al identity requires.”

The New Hobbycraft Book, Willard
and Elma Waltner. Lantern Press, 257
Park Avenue South, New York 10010.
Pp. 144, illustrated. $4.95.

g STRANGELY uneven book! The pho-

tographic how-to-do-its are excel-
lent. The text is verbose and requires
too close reading for easy use. The
projects range from the old coal-coral
plant (made by pouring a mixture of
salt, bluing and ammonia over a lump
of coal) to really intricate fishing lures.
The projects are haphazard as to equip-
ment and supplies needed, degree of dif-
ficulty, and type of use. Some include
the props used in magic tricks, the mak-
ing of an Indian moccasin, pebble ani-
mals, paperfolding, how to mount a fish.

The authors are skilled. Their books

would be more useful if the projects
were assembled around one or only a
few types, or planned specifically for
one age group. The instructions would
be easier to use if they were organized
and did not ramble.

IN BRIEF

How TO WIN AT SOLITAIRE, Walter B.
Gibson. Doubleday and Company, 575
Madison Avenue, New York 10022. Pp.
134, illustrated. Paper, $1.95. If you
have ever tried to describe a card game,
you know how dillicult it is to make it
clear to anyone unfamiliar with it. Wal-

RECREATION

ter Gibson is one person who can do it
well and with few words. A basic tech-
nique he uses is to illustrate with a sam-
ple hand, somewhat like the bridge col-
umns in newspapers. Here are thirty-
one games of solitaire, from Royal Mar-
riage to Russian Bank. Forsake the be-
loved Canfield and learn Napoleon’s
Favorite, Crazy Quilt, The Frog, or
others in this book. Cards have come
down through the centuries because
people like you and me love them.—

V.M.

LEAD-UP GAMES T0 TEAM SPORTS, Wil-
liam Blake and Anne M. Volp. Prentice-
H all, Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey. Pp.
186. Spiralbound, $6.60. This is a wel-

come addition to the resource literature
on sports and games. Lead-up games
are presented in the area of nine major
sports. The games are described briefly
but to the point and include players,
equipment, area, skills, game, scoring,
and variations. Each lead-up game is
illustrated so that the leader or teacher,
especially those without games experi-
ence, can easily see how the games are
organized. There are approximately 170
games listed in the book and they cover
games that involve kicking, throwing,
running, jumping, bending, as well as
other physical movements.———Morton
Thompson.

CREATIVE BOOKBINDING, Pauline John-
son. University of Washington Press,
Seattle. Pp. 263. $9.50. This is a beau-
tiful reference book with the history of
the art of hand bookbinding discussed
and illustrated by fine examples in
black-and-white photography and pen-
and-ink drawings. The author is a well-
known art professor, who is also the
author of Creating with Paper which
has been a very successful book. The
price of books of this quality are often
beyond the pocketbooks of those who
would like to own them but we can be
thankful that most libraries will get

them if they get calls for them.——-M.B.
Cummings.

CREATING THROUGH DANCE, Alma M.
H awhins, Prentice-H all, E n gl e w o o d
Cliffs, New Jersey. Pp. 164. Paper,
$3.95. Here is an understandable intro-
duction to the dynamics of modern
dance. The wholeness (gestalt) of
movements in space are primary bases
of conception and creativity. Detailed
analyses of examples, particularly with
reference to music, are not presented,
nor additional reference lists provided.
However, the reader will probably find
detailed technical treatises on modern
dance more meaningful after having
gained the philosophical points of view
expressed by the author.

NOVEMBER, 1964

 

BOOKS & PAMPHLETS RECEIVED

AGING

Creative Aging, Edward L. Bartz, M.D. Macmil-
l$cin§560 5th Ave., New York 10011. Pp. 179.

Full Life After 65, A, Edith M. Stern. Public Af-
fairs Pamphlets, 22 E. 38th St., New York
10016. Pp. 28. $.25.

Planning for Retirement, Helen M. Flint and Ted
Ruhig. U.S. Government Printing Office, Wash-
ington, D.C. 20402. Pp. 17. $.15.

Retirement Preparation: Chicago Plan. U.S. Gov-
ernment Printing Office, Washington 25, D.C.
Pp. 10. $.15.

Rural Caunty Cares for Its Aging, A, Ada Barnett
Stough. U. S. Gav’t Printing Office, Washing-
ton, D.C. 20402. Pp. 25. $.15.

Senior Forum, The, Beulah Collins. Fleet Publ.,
éiqsoPark Ave., New York 10017. Pp. 316.

TVA Preretirement Program, The. U.S. Govern-
ment Printing Office, Washington 25, D.C.
Pp. 18. $.15.

Vocational Counseling Program for Older Work-
ers, A. U.S. Government Printing Office, Wash-
ing 25, D.C. Pp. 22. $.15.

ARTS AND CRAFTS

ABC’s of Origami, The, Claude Sorosos. Charles
E. Tuttle, Rutland, Vt. Pp. 55. $2.95.

Alphabet and Elements of Lettering, The, Fred-
eric W. Goudy. Dover Publ., 180 Varick St.,
New York 10014. Pp. 101. Paper, $2.00.

Art in Silver and Gold, Gerald Taylor. E. P. Dut-
ton, 201 Park Ave. 5., New York 10003. Pp.
160. Paper, $1.75. .

Ceramics, Thomas M. Brennan. Goodheart-Wlll-
cox Co., Hamewood, Ill. Pp. 96. $2.35.

Creative Drawing: Point and line, Ernst Rottger
ond Dieter Klante. Reinhold Publ., 430 Park

Ave., New York 10022. Pp. 143. $4.95. _
Design by Photography, 0. R. Cray. Hastings
House, 151 E. 50th St,. New York 10022. Pp.
173. $8.95.
Designing and Making Tay Buildings, William
Turley. Sportshelf, P.O. Box 634, New Rochelle,
NY. Pp. 127. $3.75.

Display Technique, H. C. Muscutt. Toplinger, 1 19
W. 57th St., New York 10019. Pp. 132. $5.00.
Exploring with Paint, Henry Pettersan and Roy
Gerring. Reinhold Publ. 430 Park Ave., New

York 10022. Pp. 68. $5.50. _
Famous Artists of the Post, Alice Elizabeth Chase.

Plott ond Munk Publ., 200 5th Ave., New York
10010. Pp. 120. $5.95.

How to Draw Flowers, Fruit and Vegetables, Ar-
thur Zoidenburg. Abelard-Schuman, 6 W. 57th
St., New York 10019. Pp. 63. $3.00.

Imaginative Techniques in Painting, Leonard
Richmond. Reinhold Publ., 430 Park Ave., New
York 10022. Pp. 120. $10.95.

Joy of Hand Weaving, The, (2nd ed.) , Osmo Gol-

linger Tod. D. Van Nostrand, 120 Alexander
St., Princeton, N. J. P . 326. $7.95.
Made in Thailand, argoret Ayer. Random

House, 457 Madison Ave., New York 10022.
Pp. 235. $3.95. _

Modern Strand-Pulling, Davrd P. Webster. Spart-
Shelf, P.O. Box 634, New Rachelle, N.Y. Pp.
44. Paper, $2.00.

My Origami Animals and Fishes, Crown Publ., 419
Egréco Ave. 5., New York 10016. Unpaged.

My Origami Flowers, Crown Publ., 419 Park Ave.
S., New York 10016. Unpaged. $1.00.

Prints and How to Make Them, Arthur Zaiden-
berg. Harper 5' Row, 49 E. 33rd St., New York
10016. Pp. 173. $6.95. .

Portrait And Figure Pointing, Jerry Farnswarth.
Watson-Guptill, 165 W. 46th St., New York
10036. Pp. 143. $9.25.

Thinking with a Pencil, Henning Nelms. Barnes
and Noble, 105 5th Ave., New York 10003.
Pp. 347. $4.95. (paper, $1.95).

HOLIDAYS, FESTIVALS, CALENDARS

Children's Festivals from Many Londs, Nina Mil-
len. Friendship Press, 475 Riverside Dr., New
York 10027. Pp. 191. $3.95.

Flower Arrangement Calendar, The, 1964, Helen
Van Pelt Wilson. M. Barrows, 425 Park Ave. 5.,
New York 10016. Pp. 53. $1.50.

Holiday Funtime, William R. Johnson. Doubleday,
575 Madison Ave., New York 10022. Pp. 127.
Paper, $1.00.

Orange Coral Book, The, arranged by Mervyn
Horder. Westminster Press, Witherspoon Bldg.,
Philadelphia 7. Pp. 88. Paper, $1.25.

SPORTS, PHYSICAL EDUCATION, FITNESS
Adoptotions of Muscular Activity, Gene A Logan.

EVIoggworth Publ., Belmont, Calif. Pp. 294.
Agility .Fitness, Bill Wotsan. Sportshelf, P. o.

Box 634, New Rochelle, NY. Pp. 175. $5.75.
America's Favorite Fishing, F. Philip Rice. Harper
{'7 Row, 49 E. 33rd St., New York 10016. Pp.
285. $4.95.
Athletics, G. F. D. Pearson, Editor. Thas. Nelson,
$3 518. 4lst St., New York 10017. Pp. 401.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

 

‘. ,
. rem-“hyanwunmMews-«mega..1 ("Wmasxnomggwnmw -

 Purim-scorn

PORTABLE SCOREBOARD

Professional Scoring for less Money!

Increase Player and Spectator excitement
with our attractive. compact. portable score-
board designed ior long lasting easy opera-
tion adaptable to all sports and games.

Model 50 — Numbers "0" to "50" $19.75
Model 100 — Numbers "0" to "100" $24.95

Ten Day Free Trial! Send No Money!

Flickertail Sports Company
P.0. BOX 45 WIltISION, NORIH DAKOIA

 

THE GIFT FOR
EVERY WEAVER

The quarterly magazine with
new-weaving ideas in each issue

First Gift Subscription (1 yr.) $5.00
Each additional subscription $4.25

Pan American :5 foreign rates $1 yr. extra

You may include your subscription or renewal
All on one check please

An attractive card will announce your gift
Please send checks or money orders to

Handweaver & Craftsman

Dept. R
246 FIFTH AVENUE NEW YORK 10001

483

Baseball Cooch's Handbook of Offensive Strategy
and Techniques, Archie P. Allen. Prentice-
Hall, Englewood Cliffs, N.J. 07632. Pp. 223.

$5.35.

Bosic Weight Training
builders, William Pentland. Sportshelf, P.O. Box
634, New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 36. Paper, $1.25.

Basketball's Stunting Defenses, Wayne Dobbs and
Garland F. Pinhalster. Prentice-Hall, Englewood
Cliffs, N.J. 07632. Pp. 208. $5.35.

Basketball Techniques and Team Play, John W.

for Athletes and Body-

Bunn. Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, N.J.
07632. Pp. 263. $5.95.
Book of Tennis, Editors of Sports Illustrated.

J. B. Lippincatt, E. Washington Sq., Philadel-
phia 5. Pp. 89. $2.95.

Championship Football Drills, Donald E. Fuoss.
Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, N.J. 07632.
Pp. 346. Spiral bound, $7.50.

Coaching for Track-and-Field Athletics, Victor C.
Seon. Sportshelf P.O. Box 634, New Rochelle,
N.Y. Pp. 112. $3.25.

Complete Book of Archery, The, Robert Gannon.
Caward-McCann, 200 Madison Ave., New York
10016. Pp. 256. $4.95.

Examiner’s Manual for the Basic Fitness Tests,
Edwin A. Fleishmon. Prentice-Hall, Englewood
Cliffs, N.J. 07632. Pp. 60. Paper, $1.95.

Fast Ones, The, (sports car racing), Peter Miller.
Arca Publ., 480 Lexington Ave., New York
10017. Pp. 240. $4.50.

Figure Control, Eric Taylor, Arca Publ., 480 Lex-
isnlggosn Ave., New York 10017. Pp. 154. Paper,

Figure Improvement and Body Conditioning
through Exercise, Earl L Wallis and Gene A.
Logan. Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, N.J.
07632. Pp. 111. $4.95.

Fish and Fishing. Meredith Press, Des Moines,
Iowa. Pp. 224. $7.95.

Flashes and Flags: The Story of Signaling, Jock
Coggins. Dodd, Mead, 432 Park Ave. 3., New
York 16. Pp. 88. $3.25.

Fly Tying, Helen Show. Ronald Press, 15 E. 26th
St., New York 10. Pp. 281. $7.00.

Forbes CarIiIe an Swimming, Forbes Carlile. Sport-

shelf, P.0. Box 634, New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp.
202. $6.75,

GoIfers' Gold, Tony Lema. Little, Brown, 34 Bea-
con St., Boston 6. Pp. 248. $4.95.

Handball Illustrated, Charlie O'Connell. Ronald

Press, 15 E. 26th St., New York 10010. Pp. 86.
$4.00.

Handbook of Progressive Gymnastics, Tom De

Carlo. Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, N.J.
07632. Pp. 240. $6.95.

Health Principles and Practice (4th ed.), C. L.
Anderson, PhD., C. V. Langton, PhD. C. V

Mosby, 3207 Washington Blvd., St. Louis 63103:
Pp. 460. $6.25.

Heart Disease and High Blood Pressure, Kenneth
C. Hutchm M.D. Arco Publ., 480 Lexington
Ave., New York 10017. Pp. 78. Paper, $.95.

How to Coach and Attack the Zone Defenses,

Bob Dwyer. Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs,
N.J. 07632.- Pp. 224. $5.35.

Ice Hockey How to Play It and Enjoy It, Frank
Mahovlich. Spartshelf, P.O. Box 634, New Ro-
chelle, N.Y. Pp. 69. $4.25.

International Athletics Annual-1964, Olympic
Year Edition, R. L. Quercetoni, Editor. Sport-

shelf, P.O. Box 634, New Roch II , N. . P .
224. Paper, $3.00. 8 e Y D

Isometric Exercises for Figure Improvement and
Body Conditioning, Earl L. Wallis and Gene A.
Lagon. Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, N.J.
07632. Unpaged. Paper,$1.00.

Karate, Bobby Lowe. Arco Publ., 480 Lexin ton
Ave., New York 10017. Pp. 216. $4.50. 9

Knotty Problems of Baseball. Sporting News, 2018

Washin ton Ave., St. Lo ‘ .
Paper, 2'00. (.115 63166 Pp. 89.

Lead-Up Games to Team Sports, 0. William Blake
and Anne M. Volp. Prentice-Hall, Englewood
Cliffs, N.J. 07632. Pp. 186. Spiralbound, $6.60.

Maiar League Baseball Handbook (4th ed.), Dave

Anderson. J. Loweli Pratt, 15 E. 48th St.
Yark10017. Pp. 188. $.50. ' New

Making and Repairing Fishing Tackle, Richard

Amold- Sportshelf,P.0. Bo 634 R
N.Y. Pp. 86. $150, x 'New “belle.

Manual on Diving (5th ed.). S rtshelf, P.O. B
634, New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp.p<1)32. $4.25. ox

Match Point (tennis). Sportshelf, P.O. Box 634
New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 128. $3.75. '

Bab Mathias, Champion of Champions, Jim Scott.

T. S. Denison 321 th A . S. ' '
lap-210- $3. . 5 ve ,Minneapolisis.

Medical Sociology and Cultural Anthropology of
Sport and Physical Education, Ernest Joki.
Charles C. Thomas, 301-327 E. Lawrence Ave.,
Springfield, ill. Pp. 166. $7.50.

Modern Distance Running, Anton Word. Spart-

shelf, P.O. Box 634, New Roc II , N. . .
160. $5.75. 6 6 Y Pp

484

 

Modern Principles of Athletic Training, Carl E.
Klofs and Daniel D. Arnhelm. C. V. Mosby,

3207 Washington Blvd., St. Louis 3. Pp. 490.
$7.25.

More Sport, Sport, Sport. J. Lowell Pratt, 15 E.
48th St., New York 10017. Pp. 154. $.50.

Movement Behavior and Motor Learning, Bryant
J. Cratty. Leo and Febiger, 600 S Washington
Sq., Philadelphia 19106. Pp. 332. $6.50.

Muscle Building For Beginners, Michael Fallon and
Jim Sounders. Arco Publ., 480 Lexington Ave.,
New York 10017. Pp. 110. Paper, $.95.

Nutrition, Exercise and Bad Composition, Ernst
Jokl, M.D. C. C. Thomas, 01-327 E. Lawrence
Ave., Springeld, Ill. Pp. 115. $5.75.

Official AAU Judo Handbook. Amateur Athletic
Union of U.S., 231 W. 58th St., New York.
Pp. 288. Paper,$l.00.

Official Rules of Sports and Games, 1964-1965.
Sportshelf, P.0. Box 634, New Rochelle, N.Y.
Pp. 681. $8.00.

One for the Book, Leonard Gettelson. Sporting
News, 2018 Washington Ave., St. Louis 66. Pp.
366. $2.00.

Organization for Championship High School Bos-
ketbaIl, Sal "Red" Verderome. Prentice-Hall,
Englewood Cliffs, N. J. Pp. 216. $4.95.

Philosophical Foundations for Physical, Health,
and Recreation Education, Earle F. Zelgler.
Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, N.J. 07632.
Pp. 356. $6.95.

Physical Education for Boys and Men, D. Cyril
Joynson. Sportshelf, P.0. Box 634, New Ra-
chelle, N.Y. Pp. 424. $8.00.

Physical Education for College Students, Kenneth
A. Penman. C. V. Mosby, 3207 Washington
Blvd., St. Louis 63103. Pp. 310. Paper, $3.75.

Primer of Fly-Fishing, A., Roderick Haig-Brown,
Wm. Morrow, 425 Park Ave. 5., New York
10016. Pp. 187. $5.00.

Pro Football Handbook, Dave Anderson. J. Low-

gill-5,0137 E. 57th St., New York 10022. Pp. 184.

  

Fall
Harvest

Dig into back issues of RECREATION and
pick a peek of ripe ideas. Every article is
new until you have read it! Increase your
resource material by ordering these fall
issues while they are still available and at

BARGAIN PRICES.

El November 1963. No. of copies
Our New Automated World

Magic of Christmas

What Is Cybernetics?

Swimming Pool Filters

[I September 1963 No. of copies
The Descending Spiral of Ugliness

Cultural Activities Go West

Guide for Joint Use of Facilities

Changing Silhouettes in Sports (I)

C] November 1962 No. of copies

Ripe for Trouble (delinquency)
A Community Calendar

The Human Values of Recreation
Youth Serves the Community

[:1 October 1962

Scenery by Projection

Puppetry and Children

Community Recreation an a Trial Basis
After-School Arts and Science

Single copies ............................ .. $ .50
Five or more, each .................... -- $ .30

 

 

 

No. of copies

 

Order from

NATIONAL RECREAlION ASSOCIATION
8 W. 8th Street, New York, N. Y. 10011

 

Pro, Pro, Pro (football). J. LOWell Pratt, 137 E.
57th St., New York 10022. Pp. 181. $.50.

Quarterbacks, The, Don Smith, Editor. J. Lowell
Pratt, 13'] E. 57th St., New York 10022. Pp.
144. Paper, $.50.

Road Racing, U.S.A., Robert B. Jackson. Henry
2. Wolck, 19 Union Sq. W., New York 10003.
Pp. 51. $2.75.

Safety Checks for Skin and Scuba Diving. Chon-
 L. Bete, Greenfield, Moss. 01301. Pp. 15.

Shark Hunters, The, Roy Bunting. Vantage Press,
isgogsw. 31st St., New York 1000). Pp. 134.

Skating On Ice, Einar Jomland, Ron Priestley,
James Waldo, and Michael Kirby. Sterling
ggblgI‘lglg Park Ave. S., New YOrk 10016. Pp.

Skiing in Britain, J. Kerr Hunter. Thos. Nelson,
18 E. 4ist St., New York 10017. Pp. 118. $2.50.

Skiing the American Way, Peter Estin. John Day,
200 Madison Ave., New York. Pp. 88. $4.50.

Sports Cars, Robert B. Jackson. Henry 2. Wolck,
19 Union Sq., New York 10003. Pp. 43. $2.75.

Sports of Our Presidents, The, John Durant. Hast-
ings House, 151 E. 15th St., New York 10022.
Pp. 149. $3.95.

Squash Racquets (2nd ed.), John Skillman. Ran-
old Press, 15 E. 26th St., New Yark 10010. Pp.
86. $4.00.

This Is Rugby League, Jock Pollard, Editor. Sport-
shelf, P.O. Box 634, New Rochelle, N. Y. Pp.
126. $6.25.

Throwing. Sportshelf, PO. Box 634, New Rochelle,
N. Y. Pp. 32. Paper, $1.00.

Track and Field Athletics (6th ed.), George Bres-
nahan, W. W. Tuttle and Francis X. Cretzmeyer.
C. V. Mosby, 3207 Washington Blvd., St. Louis
3. Pp. 424. $6.75.

Weight Lifting and Weight Training, George W.
Kirkley. Arco Publ., 480 Lexington Ave., New
York 10017. Pp. 157. $2.50.

What Evervane Should Know about Boating
Safety. Channing L. Bete, Greenfield, Moss.
01301. Pp. 15. $.25.

YOUTH

Children Are Human, Marie Hartwig and Bettye
Myers. Burgess Publ., 426 S. 6th St., Minne-
apolis 15. Pp. 123. Paper, $2.50.

Children: The Challenge, Rudolf Dreikers. Duell,
Sloan 6' Pearce, 60 E. 42nd St., New York
10017. Pp. 335. $5.95.

Children Welcome, Rosemarion V. Staudacher.
Farrar, Straus, 19 Union Sq. W., New York
10003. Pp. 177. $2.25.

Needs and Interests Study of 11, 12, 13-Year-Old
Bays' Club Members. Boys' Clubs of America,
;7 15(1)“ Ave., New York 10017. Pp. 64. Paper,

1. .

What They Are Doing to Your Children, Max Raf-
ferty. New American Library, 501 Madison
Ave., New York 10022. Pp. 192. $3.95.

Young Adults and Their Parents, Harry Milt.
Public Affairs Committee, 381 Park Ave. S.,
New York 10016. Pp. 28. $.25.

 

MAGAZINE ARTICLES

 

HOUSE AND GARDEN, September 1964
An Everlasting Centerpiece (table decorations).
, October 1964

How to Design and Make Needlepoint Rugs.
Sportsman's Cook Book, James A. Beard.
The Swiss Fair, Anne Stagg.

HOUSE BEAUTIFUL, October 1964
The Pros and Cons of Retirement Cities, Robert
L. Siegel.
How to Grow a Miniature Garden Under Gloss,
Kathleen Frederick.

JOHPER, September 1964
Former Brown—Recreation Specialist.

PARENTS', September 1964
Special Education Issue.
Be Glad Your Child

Mead, Ph.D. .
Career Planning for the Age of Automation,
George Davenel.

PTA Magazine, September 1964
Adolescent Sexual Behavior—Whose Responsi-
bility? Mary S. Colderone, M.D. _
The Strange World of Our Children, Maurice B.
Mitchell.
WOMAN'S DAY, September 1964
Birds at Your Window, John K. Terres.
Scandinavian Diary (crafts), Cora A. Anthony.

Treasure Chests.
Painting with Paper (collage), Theresa Copu-

0110.

Is Different, Margaret

, October 1964

Folk Art Designs (for knitted gloves and mit-
tens)
Amerlco's State Flowers (needlework).

RECREATION

POWERFUL PATENTED PLUNGER CLEARS

CLOGGED TDILETS

in a jiffy!

Nothing Less Than

The Best Equipment
Is Good Enough-

   

Clear messy, stuffed toilets
Cut maintenance costs with

'TOlLllF LEX®

Toilet Plunger

Ordinary plungers don’t seat
properly. They permit com—
pressed air and water to splash
back. Thus you not only have
a mess, but you lose the very
pressure you need to clear the
obstruction.

With “TOILAFLEX”, ex-
pressly designed for toilets, no
air or water can escape. The
full pressure plows through the
clogging mass and swishes it
down. Can’t miss!

 
   

% For The Finest,
- h Strongest, Safest
r and Most Durable

 

SPECIFY

 

AMERICAN
APPROVED

PARK and PICNIC,
P LAYG R O U N D

AND SWIMMING
POOL EQUIPMENT

Since 1911 the recognized standard of
excellence In "construction and safety.
You are sure of the best from American.

AMERICAN

 

0 DESIEHEII to flex at any angle Get II "TOILAFLEX" for your home t'oo.
I . o o o g . t.
. suctlon.nm stops splash_back PosItIve Insurance ogamst slotted m e

0 Centers itself, can't skid around 65 :TCEORNLFTLUEgé PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.
0 Tapered tail gives air-tight fit Higher in Canada mailed prompt“, ANDERSON, INDIANA, U. s. A.
AVAILABLE AT YOUR HARDWARE SUPPLIER °" ’°“' We“ W°"L°'sL‘““‘S'"*""“¢*""‘"S °‘ ""5

PARK. PICNIC. PLAYGROUND. SWIMMING
POOL AND DRESSING ROOM EQUIPMENT

   

1965 National Recreation Association District Conferences

DISTRICT DATES LOCATION HOTEL

California and‘ March 20-24 San Francisco San Francisco Hilton
Pacific Southwest

Recreation and Park
Conference

Great Lakes March 28-3I Indianapolis‘ Claypool

Pacific Northwest March 28-3l Seattle Benjamin Franklin

Midwest March 28-3 I Lincoln, Nebraska Cornhusker

Southwest March 30-April 2 Oklahoma City Sheraton Oklahoma

Middle Atlantic May 9-l2 Pocono Manor, Pocono Manor Inn
Pennsylvania

New England May l6-l9 Newport, Rhode Island Viking Hotel and
Motor Inn

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

Your United Way helps
change teen-age styles

Driving toward trouble . . or toward a touchdown? Very often, that depends on you. On
your United Way pledge that helps us carry on the recreation, guidance and community
programs our young people so desperately need. We are fortunate in having such pro-
grams, and in being able to operate them year round, but continuing support is required so
‘nat our services for children and teenagers never stop growing. That support must come
low you Please give generously. One Gift Works Many Wonders/GIVE THE UNITED WAY

.I w “nub-m d as .1 out'ir "mm 1! by this rm; nrine.

