{EC REATIO

“IAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION ° MARCH 1965 0 60c

 

 

   

now at lower arises 

QF-SOQ, 500 watts

.---\J H
\
‘1'...

New designs and lower prices make Quartz-Flood features more
valuable than ever.

0 Die-cast aluminum housing is rugged and rust-proof.
0 Units relamp conveniently through the front.

0 Three beam patterns are available.
0 Choose trunnion or swivel mountings. Available cross-bar

mountings hold several floodlights on a single pole.

Whatever your outdoor lighting problem, look to General
Electric—with the most complete line of commercial, industrial,
and sports lighting systems. See your G-E wholesaler for these

quality products . . . quick shipment . . . competitive prices.
*Trade-mark of General Electric Co. 460‘“

Progress is Our Mosf lmporfanf Hair/cf

GENERAL@ELEcTnIc

   
   
   
 
 
 
   
   
 
  

QF-“isbo, 1500 watts ‘

h

,J
-

   

 - h you horses!

 Imagination and engineering built the 12:
 to Dodge City and all points west. It’s tou
 dependable Mexico Forge equipment.
stagecoach that keeps these rough h
bres on the job day in and day out. Un'
almost constant attack, in and out of b
weather, and back and forth down the du
trail it travels. With little or no maintenan
With complete safety. Indestructible.

Meanwhile, back east at Mexico For
they're building more of the same . .

jet slides,

all sorts of adventures for the kids on y
    .,  . , playground. See if there's one for you.
  5  ..   They're all in our 4-color catalog.

Write to Bill Kennedy 
The Mexico Forge,lnc. 

Reedsville, Pa.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

ALL-AMERICAN LINE/i JAMERICAN 'INsTRUCTOR LINE
YMNASTIC EQUIPMENT  GYIVINASTIc EQUIPMENT

ALL-AMERICAN
TRAMPOLINES

 

ALL-AMERICAN
ATHLETIC

FIELD MARKERS

@

DIVE-O-TRAMPS

JR. ALL-AMERICAN LINE ALL-AMERIcANILIN’E‘

GYMNASTIC EQUIPMENTA PORTABLELInoodR 
I -- _   OBSTACLE COURSE

     

‘ ,

ALL-AMERICAN BACKYARD
PORTABLE AND PIT STYLE

TRAMPOLINES

ALL-AMERICAN LINE
TUMBLING, WRESTLING,
GYMNASTIC MATS

0 ALL-AMERICAN LINE
ISOMETRIC
NTRACTION EQUIPMENT

  
   
   
  
  
      

 
  

.1

. ERNING BUYERS AGREE ON QUALITY. They know it's important.
? Because quality builds Champions . . . quality saves money, too!
the Little League set to the Olympic stars, athletes do their best
tOp-fIight equipment. That’s why winning coaches and thoughtful
‘ ts throughout the world specify AMERICAN, the brand name
can depend upon for superior construction and championship
rmance. We guarantee same day mailing of catalogs of any of
' es illustrated above. Send for yours now!

I

ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT
JEFFERSON, IOWA. U.S.A.

   

IN, 1965

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

     

97

RECREATION

MARCH 1965

 

 

VOL. LVIII, NO. 3 PRICE 60c

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

GENERAL

 

Why Outdoor Conservation Education? (Editorial)
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Joseph I. Shomon 101

Americans must develop an “ecological conscience”

Introducing the NRA Board of Trustees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110
Sixty lay and professional members provide rich reservoir of experience
Wildflowers in an Asphalt Jungle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 112
Two cities preserve fast disappearing woodland areas

Be My Guest! . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . - Blanche Hackett 115
Apache reservation makes camping a paying proposition

Your Spring Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 116
Highlights of NRA District meetings from coast to coast

47th National Recreation Congress (October 3-8) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 119
Make your reservations now for Minneapolis

Weather Signs in the Back Country . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 144

Old'rtime beliefs about weather predicting

ADMINISTRATION _—_—___..
Choosing Your Day Camp Site . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Monte Melamed 122

 

 

Clarify your goals and objectives before examining the lay of the land

New Horizons in Camping . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 124
Thirty-million Americans enjoy variety in camping

Standards for Recreation Areas: The State . . . . . . . . C. Leslie Lynch 126
Can state parks meet the needs of a zooming population?

Notes for the Administrator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 128
A city has aesthetic as well as police powers

State and Local Developments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 138
The maximum and minimum in urban renewal

Research Briefs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 139
A city fights for its identity and future

PROGRAM ________—___—____________

Something New Every Day . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Gerald Thomas 129
Chicago day camps offer six weeks of fun in the sun

Day Camp Therapy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Carl A. Lubbert, Paul Poulicakos 130
Mental patients find new perspective

Fleet Thinking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Charles W. Russell 132
How to launch a community small-craft program

DIGEST

Skin and Scuba Training Games . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Frank I. Scalli 136
Underwater games combine fun and safety

DEPARTMENTS

Letters 99 Reporter’s Notebook 102 As We Go To Press 107

Editorially Speaking 109
Market News 140 Resource Guide 141
Rx for the Ill and Handicapped 147

People in the News 120
Concerning Upkeep 143
New Publications 148

 

RECREATION is published monthly except July and Au ust b the National R ‘ '

a serVIce organization supported by voluntary contribtigtions.yat 8 West 8th sisgiiilagdsigfiam'li
York 10011, is on.fIle in public libraries and Is indexed in the Readers’ Guide and Book Review
DIgest. Subscription $5.00 a year. Canadian and foreign subscription rate $5.75. Re-entered as
second-class matter April 25. 1950, at the Post Office in New York. New York, under Act of March
3. 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in Section 1103. Act of
October 3. 1917, authorized May 1. 1924. Microfilms of current issues available from University
Microfilms, 313 N. First Street, Ann Arbor, Michigan.

 
  
 

DUCATIONAL The articles herein printed are Copyright. 1965 by the m

R E S 5 the expression of the writers and National Recreation ASSociation. {Tst

S S O C 1 AT I 0” not a statement of policy of the '"corporatea‘; 
Printed In the SA.  "

0 F _ .
A M BR l CA National Recreation AssocIatlon_

t

 

98

    
 
  
 
 
  
    
    
 
    
   
 
 
 
    

Editor in. Chief
JOSEPH PRENDERGAST

Editor
DOROTHY DONALDSON

Assistant Editor
ELVIRA DELANY

Associate Editor for Progra ‘.
VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN '

Business and Advertising Man
FRANK ROWE

0n the Cover

Water sports have grown in p.
larity as federal agencies crt-
more inland water areas throli
out the country. Education for 1
door recreation now includea
struction in boating and sailing
before a spanking breeze, eve.
our landlocked states. Althq
this cover photograph shows

ing on Lake Michigan, it could _
as well have been the Southwe

Next Month T

April is the month for publica.l
of the Playground Issue of RE.
ATION. Articles on playgrounds
cover facilities, sites, equipn
leadership. “Playground Sur
suggests ways Of luring chil
and their skate boards to the
ground instead of allowing the
play this dangerous sport on!
sidewalks. “Super-Block Play .
eas,” by a prominant New Y'
architect, will give details of
ultra-modern recreation area '
New York City housing projecl
few photographs taken by I
Bridgeman, on his swing aro‘
the country while making a 5
ground study for the NRA, an
comments on the playground.

saw on that trip will be inclu‘

Photo Credits

Page 102, Attar Photograpl
New York City; 110, Paul Pa
113, Henry Dunton; 121, Atl
Journal-Constitution; 1 2 2 -
Henry Kaufmann Campgro
Pearl River, New York; 124;
(work camp) Lincoln Farm
Camp, Roscoe, New York; (tr
camp), Wisconsin Conservatio
partment, Madison; (trail caI
Bouvé-Boston School of Phy
Education, Medford, Mass
setts; (tent camping) Ontario
partment of Travel and Publ'
Toronto; (all camps) Lincoln
Work Camp; (decentralized c
BouVé-Boston; (day camp)
liam Z. Harmon, Sarasota, Flor"
(overnight camp) Arline St

Fieldston Lower School, B

New York.

 
  
   
   
   
   
  
 

BECREA

 

)Ien Adventures

>€ :

arhara Chopin‘s editorial [\iovem-
. calls our attention to the greatest
cognized deprivation of the Ameri-
child—41ml of solitude. For children
youth. freedom to dream is. spiritu-
l speaking. a matter of life or death,
it is in solitude that is born the
m whence came the Psalms. the dis-
, T)" of radium, and the achievements

1e greatest of us to the least of us.

-\1 these days when the birth rate is

- . ing into outer space, causing an in-

si ng shrinkage of houseroom. school-

11. and play-room. children must. for

‘most part. find or make their own

inle. Fortunately. this does not re-

e physical isolation. While they have

hoice as to the kind of house they

' in. one escape hatch is open to them:

'(‘l100l. The more crowded the class-

1. the wider the exit. The tortured
l

ing aloud of Hiawatha by some
« y-five or forty pupils. or the recita-
' l of the tributaries of the Mississippi.
'ides an ample margin for a voyage

I l e farthest Hebrides or a drive across
: heavens of the chariot of the sun.
. if he doesn’t get back in time to
4 his place in the book or hear the
ier’s question, is not a had mark a

1 price for such stolen adventures?

fostering the child's fantasy life,
' may prove his good fairy. Parents
bless it because it keeps the chil-
quiet are unaware that the children
watch it or pretend to because it
s the parents quiet. While a child
ht in a daydream is regarded as
tally ill and yanked hack to “re-
~  the child before the. TV set is left
e uninterrupted pursuit of his own
ghts. lt allows him to build good
es which, as Robert Frost says. make

l l neighbors—even out of parents.
-\ltGAltET LEE SOFTlHltl). [ling/mm.

(Issac/i usetts .

ded Service

I

ie other commissioners join with
11 extending our compliments to . . .
I fational Recreation Association for
'Ision and leadership in establish-
a much needed consulting service
mnties in the parks and recreation
. \Ve collectively feel that the suc-
in implementing the Land and
5 'r Conservation Fund and other
: . ressive legislative acts depends

hly upon county government. The

en. 1965

counseling services .\li.‘\ will soon be.
furnishing is ill be inuduahle to agencies
throughout the country.

We sincerely feel that you hau- se-
lected the best qualified parks and recran
tion specialist in the country in Ken
Smithee [\RA's new county parks and
recreation consultant]. Maricopa Coun-
ty will suffer a great loss, but NRA and
the recreation program throughout the
country will benefit from his vast knowl—

*' W

C

lor perfect
ACOUSTICS...
anywhere

edge and dedicated services in this field.
liuring our assoc . .tion with Ken for the
past ten years “P ilrtVt’ observed roller-
tivc- qualities and qualification:- seldom
found in ulli- mar:

Thank you fut mur assistance in the
past and \w an hooking forward to fu‘
ture lit-mm iatiun .tlni i-s[.wr-i.il|y our i'nl'l'
suitingr M'nit'r's (iur best wishes for
 «tulttilltletl Htt't‘ess.

FRED \I. (.l’llti \ (.lmr'rman. Purl... &

Recreation (-mnmissiun. ilurirupa

(.‘mmh‘. .‘fnicmm.

{i- i- O

M lllt' Janna!) 3. 100.3 nu-eting of
the \rizona Parks and lie: teatian \ssu-

 

Malcolm Smith photograph

Stagecraft portable shells can be used indoors or out, are easily erected
and stored, produce evenly balanced sound throughout the listening area.
Three men can completely erect our largest shell in approximately 3V2 hours.

Completely weatherproof, Stagecraft shells are ideal for year-round use in
parks, recreation centers and beaches. If you're interested in Stagecraft's
complete service in musical acoustics, write today for more detailed

information.

8 TA GE ORA FT meow“...

NORWALK,

83 EAST AVENUE,

 

CONNECTICUT 06852

Y C I I . . t (
When writing to our advertisers please mention Rizcnsrrlox. U

 I388 Ill be 0i  A

 

Here’s potent proof that TROPHY can “stand the gaff” of multiple recrea-
tional use. The Chicago Roller Skating Company, in setting up a skating program
for a school or recreation center gym, recommends a TROPHY finish. TROPHY
outwears ordinary finishes by two to three times. . . is easier to maintain . ..

effects substantial economies for you.

Daily floor care with Hillyard Super Hil-Tone always keeps your basketball
floor in tournament condition. A trained Hillyard “Maintaineer” will be glad to
serve “On Your Staff -— Not Your Payroll” in planning floor refinishing and your

HILLYARD FLOOR TREATMENTS  "

The Most Widely Recommended ~ ' -'

 

 

on, b...
. . xan-o $~
s99 \.:.\\'.\ i‘ _

and more in demand.

available.

Orange.

to attach.

two dozen or more.)

Interested dealers write:

Equips Teams & Players Equally. Designed by Phs. Ed. Teachers

 a»? 1 THE BELT is made or 1" wide heavy webbing and is avail-
 able in 3 sizes: S. M. and L. Two flag and three flag belts

2 and Approved for Every Surface

St. Joseph, Missouri. U.S.A.

Passaic. New‘ Jersey San Jose. California

" u , / :-__

a . i,
“3:; -.- ‘2
.. r, ' , r
5;, r "#5,, 
1" I ’I
P a .I fr;

~ ,

The Finest Belt and Flag Set made
for playing many Running Tag Games

Since Flag Football and some thirty other running tag games
are becoming so popular in todays Physical Fitness and Health
Education Programs. the RIP FLAG Belt and Flag Set is more

 __' THE BELT BUCKLE is a nickel-plated. double D-ring safety
’ buckle, adjustable for good fit.

THE FLAGS are made of strong. vinyl coated, nylon material
.that will not tear, soil or deteriorate. Are 2 wide by 18
long and come in 5 brilliant team colors: Red. BL. Yet. (in.

PATENT FLAG ATTACHMENT made of the Amazing
VELCRO Adhesive Material is absolutely fool-proof and
guaranteed for at least 10,000 pulls per flag. The EASIEST

Write for FREE Brochure. and Special 0uantity Prices to
Schools and Organizations. (Free game book with orders of

MASON CITY TENT 81 AWNING CO. ,r

406 So. Federal Ave. Mason City. Iowa 50401

100

    

You or a Student Can Referee With Ease—Stops Arguments

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
 

ciation, Kenneth J. Smithee, sup
tendent of the Maricopa County I
and Recreation Department, resi
from the Board of Registration ant
representative of the [Arizona R;
and Recreation] Association on!
board of directors of the ArizonaJ
servation Council. His resignationl.
accepted with mixed feelings—reg
the loss of a very fine and dedi l
member and a distinguished Recreén
professional in his state—pleasur
his appointment as county parksi,
recreation consultant with the NatiQ.
Recreation Association in Washing.
D. C. .
KEITH K. BRUNS, President, Ari: .
Parks and Recreation Associatio 1

Blue Island Blues

The following letter was receive
James L. Anderson, president oft]
Blue Island Park District, Illinois .
garding the threatened loss of a di
park.
Dear Mr. Anderson:
We would like to take this opport’
to join our affiliate in your fine
the Illinois Federation of Sportsn
Clubs, in expressing concern that
tral Park in Blue Island will b
through the addition to a hospital t
We hope you realize that there is
a national program under way I
aside and preserve natural areas
open spaces in or near large metr
tan areas. This concern has bee
Hected through a report of the On
Recreation Resources Review Co
sion, through the establishment of
Bureau of Outdoor Recreation, thr
the enactment of the Land and
Conservation Fund Act, and in
other ways. Even the President, i
State of the Union message . . . expr
the need for quality outdoor recreat
opportunities in “The Great Society
In line with this concept, we are l
ful that Central Park in Blue Island
be continued and maintained in its
ent condition. Encroachments for
beneficial purposes now are being
on all types of natural areas throu
the country, yet these parcels co
values which cannot be compared
strict economic basis. Central Pa
New York City, Rock Creek Pa
Washington, DC, Forest Park i
Louis, and many others long
proven their values to the people of
areas and, once invaded, they ar
forever. We hOpe that the oiiicia
Blue Island can see fit to maint
well-balanced program of developl
one which will preserve outdoor r
tional and park areas in harmony
other municipal facilities.
THOMAS L. KIMBALL, Executim
rector, National Wildlife Federu
Washington, DC.

M

RECRE

  
 
 
  
     
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
   
  
 
  
 
  
 
    
    
  
   
  
  
  
 
   
 
  
   
 
  
 
  

h J. Shomon

URINC THE PAST CENTURY, the growth of our popula-
l tion and the unwise and wasteful use of our lands
and natural resources have pointed to the need for a
r understanding and appreciation of resource problems
i nservation. In the early part of this century Theodore
'elt called the nation’s attention to this need, and
11 his vigorous leadership a strong and effective na-
conservation policy was established, a policy that led
_ creation of many of our national forests, parks and
i e areas.
ay, however, the capacity of many of our existing na-
l" outdoor areas has become overtaxed, and if the present
continues these facilities will become wholly inadequate
L future needs. More important, unless people are given
_‘ r insights into the natural world around them and have
t; portunity to form proper attitudes and a correct con-
', no amount of recreational opportunity, no amount
itional facilities, will be of much avail. People, by
ry numbers, presence and behavior, will destroy what
beck. Some hope for easing this dilemma lies in educa-
I"and in zoning for particular uses and for limiting the
‘ers of users of certain areas.
mechanized age of dramatic dimensions in which we
nly find ourselves is marked by dynamic changes in
,. The challenge that lies ahead in conservation is to
public understanding and attitudes which will give
'tizens an “ecological conscience.” Without such a con-
~ , we will continue to sully, to destroy, to denude, to
to mine prodigally the resources we have.
ignificant product of our times is the rather new and
ugly constant search by people for livability. Today
ive living places—pleasant surroundings and oppor-
is for creative, productive family leisure—are becom-
ime factors governing our economy and way of life.

  

6. was a time when city fathers believed in the idea
bities and their industry attract people. Now times have
ed. As George Cline Smith, vice-president of the l". W.
Corporation, puts it: “From hereon out the situation
nd to reverse itself. Industry will want to go where the
e want to live.”

long ago men, women and children lived close to the
liven so recently as a generation ago more than three-
rs of our people lived and labored in rural areas-—
ing on farms, in forests, sustaining themselves close to

C. IIOMON is director of the Nature Centers Division, Na-
. Audubon Society. This material is used, with permis-
' 'from the division’s Manual of Outdoor Conservation

tion. (Available for $2.00 from National Audubon

, 1130 Fifth Avenue, New York 10028.)
l
i I, 1965

GUEST EDITORIAL

 

OUTDOOR CONSERVATION EDUCATION?

nature and natural resources. Now the pattern has been re-
versed.

A great many people who seek communion with nature
surely want something more than benches, picnic tables, and
fireplaces. Many desire places where they can learn some-
thing about the natural world in which they live, where
through better appreciation and sharper sensibilities they
can learn how to lead richer, fuller lives. Many surely want
wholesome, untrampled places near at home where they can
learn about wildlife, trees, wildflowers and rocks—where
they can see and hear and feel wild things for themselves.

The time has arrived in America for the setting aside of
some outdoor lands for learning and enjoyment. Such cen-
ters can take many forms, yet their objectives should be the
same: to combat continued resource abuses, to fight ugli-
ness in blighted cities and strip suburbia, to curb juvenile
delinquency, to preserve vital segments 0/ our outdoors, and
to give to children and adults wider vision, better skills, and
deeper perspective in living. All these are reasons enough
for establishing such outdoor centers and for developing
within such areas dynamic programs of outdoor conserva-
tion education.

In this shift from an agrarian social structure to an in-
dustrial society, people have lost important ties with nature
-——with land, pastures, hayfields, farm ponds and forests,
farm animals, and with much of Mother Earth in general.
They have broken their contacts with the soil, water, wild-
flowers, and wild creatures—and many of these same people
are concerned. They're worried because they suddenly realize
that there is something missing in our culture which in our
parents’ day seemed to have more special meaning in life.
There is a growing realization today that unless leisure is
used more productively, unless there is also some quality in
recreation, it can and very well might backfire on society.

It seems obvious, then, that there needs to be a new ground
swell of interest in nature, to return families, school children
and youth groups, adults and senior citizens once more to
our age-old kinship with the land. This time, however, the
return must be for enlightenment and inspiration. There is
already ample manifestation of man‘s interest in outdoor
recreation. Our national and state parks are swelling with
visitors. Five times as many vacationists are now using na-
tional forests and parks as used them ten years ago. Our
national wildlife refuges and state game management areas
are bursting at the. seams with recreation seekers. Never be-
fore in the history of America has outdoor recreation held
so much appeal for so many growing millions of our citizens.
Yet we must ask ourselves if the time has not come to pay
some attention to defining the ends of what we seek. 

101

A REPORTER’S NOTEBOOK

One Way to Get Land

DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURE known
A as “cluster” zoning is responsible
for a new 69-acre skiing tract on Long
Island, New York, in Brookhaven Town-
ship, F armingdale. Officially opened
January 20, Baldhill Ski Bowl has been
carved out of wooded hills to provide a
facility for beginning, intermediate, and
advanced skiers of Suffolk County—
complete with ski tow, snow machine
and parking area. Baldhill was made
possible because this type of zoning per-
mits builders to squeeze houses onto
plots smaller than those called for under
prevailing zoning. The land saved can
then be preserved as open space for pub-
lic purposes. In this instance, according
to The New York Times, a realty firm
was permitted to build 475 houses on
smaller plots in return for the donation
of the ski site to the town. Skiers are
now swarming to the Baldhill Bowl from
all over Long Island. Suffolk County’s
two previously constructed ski runs were
operated by private clubs.

Pattern for Over-Populated
States

A NEW three thousand-acre park is
only one of many new projects now
under way as a part of the New Jersey
Green Acres Program, according to the
annual report delivered to the program
Citizen’s Committee at a meeting in
Princeton on January 28. This new
acquisition of land at present consists of
fifty-nine farms. It will be developed
over a twenty-five-year period, at a cost
of about $25,000,000, and will be fi-
nanced by the county (Mercer), the
state, and the federal government. The
new facility will contain, among other
things, a two hundred-acre lake, two
eighteen-hole golf courses, thirty tennis
courts, and an amphitheater for the per-
forming arts. Plans for a similar facility
along the Delaware and Baritan Canal
between Princeton and New Brunswick
is among other acquisitions now being
considered.

The need for both large and small
open-space facilities in New Jersey is

102

pressing, indeed, with a population in-
crease now reaching an unparalleled
density of 803 persons per square mile.
The Green Acres Program, the result of
the passage of a $60,000,000 bond issue
in 1961, is the state’s answer to that
need. It might well be studied by other
densely populated states. (See also,
“Crash Program for Parkland Acquisi-
tion,” RECREATION, October 1964.)

Training Workshops

HE ANNUAL Northern New England
TRecreation Workshop at North Con-
way January 9-10 was attended by forty-
seven men and women from Maine, New
Hampshire and Vermont. They joined
in sessions on Recreation Site Planning,
do’s and don’ts for planning that new
area; Federal Assistance Programs, how
they affect Northern New England;

NOT THIS . . .

    

NEVER DEFEND ON AN
INNERTUBE. It is too easy to
slip through it or have it slip
away from you.

. . . BUT THIS

 

Learn to swim. If you need a
flotation device to begin with,
be sure it is a safe one and
won’t leave you, the Red Cross
warns. It

m

Vandalism, who commits it ant
how to prevent it, and vandalproof
ment and materials; Salesmanshi
to explain recreation departmen
ices, communication by means of r
diagrams and posters; and Ski
(rope tows), construction, ope

.l ya h—l-_ “ol~ ‘

maintenance and programs at suc
Delegates also viewed instruction
on Basketball; Skiing (teachin
American technique) ; and safety
Mountain Climbing. A total of I
delegates attended the workshop

nut-3...;

the communities of Derry, lioc

Concord, Bristol, Franklin, Keene '

chester, North Conway, and Berli
the University of New Hampshi

‘3? '3? '1‘:- ii-

The eighth Annual Training In
of the Society of Directors of Mn
Recreation of Ontario consisted e1
of the presentation and discussion
professional papers prepared an
sented by society members. The
of the papers were: (1) Adult R
tion Programmes Should Be Sel
porting,  Neighborhood Com
Can Contribute to the Effective I
tion for Recreation Department, (
What Extent Should Municipal R
tion Departments Be Concerned
Fringe Groups, (4) Hobbies—S
Everyone Have One—Does Eve
Need One, (5) Playground Progra
Are Behind the Times, and (6)
Should Be a Closer Relationshi
tween Municipal Recreation Corn
and Boards of Education.

John Thorsen, new society pres
in his inaugural speech, urged r
tionists to become involved with 1'
groups in their communities. H
also that it was the job of the mun
recreation director to influenc
whole sense of recreation life an
we cannot, as practitioners, affo
insulate ourselves from other grou
volved in recreation. Other new 0

are Lloyd Doran, treasurer; W

  

Brewster, registrar; Gerald Slric
secretary; Margaret Phillips, vice-.01s
dent; Sam Jacks, past-president,
Laurie Branch, member-at-largc.

Recma

  
   
  
 
   
   
  
  
   
 
   
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
 
 
  
     
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
   
  
  

[0 PER Convention Prog 11m Foundry Company with the cooperation making difliculties, the company’s Mono-
0f the Boy Scouts of America. it was rail Division decided to make the fare
launched July 1964 at the AMF Mono- eighty cents, setting aside the eightieth
rail at the New York World’s Fair, with penny for a fund for worthy causes. The
the presentation of a $2,750 check to the Boy Scouts of America is one of the or-

i
even“. PROGRAMS scheduled for the
’ national convention of the Ameri-
‘ Association for Health, Physical
-ation, and Recreation in Dallas,

, March 19-23 will include a

cation Division luncheon talk by

Boy Scouts of America drawn from the ganizations to participate in the fund.
Monorail’s “Eighticth Penny Fund.” it AMF will allocate $30,000 from the
is still going great guns. Because of the fund to underwrite the cost of a “Sports

'Ce Kenned ' Shriver. She will s )cak , , . , _ ,
i I mounting com shortage——particularly Phat Last a Lifetime” program for Ex-

it“-"Proniraminnr for the Mcntall ' Re- . . .
,,° C. T . i of pennies—and to forestall change. plorer Scouts wherein awards Wlll he
,d, as she did at the i\ational Rec-

'on Congress in Miami Beach last

 

II
1‘ e Recreation Division program will
include eight variations on the
e. “Recreation and the Performing
" Sieliolt Frieswyk, NRA consult-
- on the performing arts, is assisting
planning and development. “Work,
ire, and Recreation in the Coming
ricaii Culture” will he the topic of
. pening general session address by
‘ Lerner, eminent writer and pro-
'r of American civilization and
d politics at Brandeis University.

nedy Center Progress

iii: FIRST significant national event
of 1965 came when Congress unani-
i)sly voted to dedicate the then Na-
'll Cultural Center as the sole memo-
in the nation’s capital to President
inedy. The act further authorized the
iropriation of $15,500,000 to match
ls raised by the general public. The
1964’ had seen the ground broken
the center and architectural planning
tte into its final stages.

 

w, as a second 1965 event related
be center and, worthy of noting here,
increasing number of organizations

‘ mousetrap.

“low a seat in “‘9 Cenlcr- The (305‘ Man once said, “Build one better and the world will beat a path . . .”

l tax-deductible donation of $1,000, So we did. For 35 years our business — and our only business — has

, - - ,- been coin-operated lockers. The finest available. And now with our
I [hi 31“ WI” he aCknOWIedng “1th a expanded new production facilities at Jamestown, N. Y., Coin-Lek
""3 Plaque am-‘ied [0 the lka Of 3 products are better than ever—with dramatic new, modern design

“in [he cenlcn Anyone interesled can in addition to  security and job-tested, trouble-free Operation.
sin further details from the John 1:. Our best references are the customers we serve—recreation areas,

1 individuals are contributing funds

‘ l _ C I. I P f , parks, schools and public buildings all over the U. S. and Canada —
1'" ‘3 enter or t “3 Cr ormmg with thousands of Coin-Lek Lockers in daily use and millions of user
6. 1 (01 l’ennsylvania Avenue, N.W., checkings annually.

a subsidiary at American Locker Company. Inc.

. (9
Write for new I N
Coin-Lola Catalogue!  C 0 |_ C] K 

COIN-LOK SYSTEMS, INC.

Dept. 35, Jones (- Gitiord Avenue, Jamestown, New York 14701
A SUBSIDIARY OF AUTOMATIC VOTING MACHINE CORP.

hington 6. I).C.

0,000 for Expiorer

iits Sports Program

 

b SPORTS and physical-fitness pro-
gram for Explorer Scouts is heng
nsored hy American Machine and

{0}], 1965 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 103

 

GET THE GUYS
T0 VOCALIZE

WITH
NATIONAL'S DANDY

“SING-ALONG SONG SLIDES”!!

Meetings that begin or end with sing-along sessions
are successful meetings! Watch your gang warm up
fast with a lusty group sing! Send for National's
free catalog of all-time hit songs, available in slide
form for as low as 50¢ a tune!

Need a projector? Let us know . . . we'll save you
real dough! Write today to:

NATIONAL STUDIOS. INC.
42 West 48th Street, N. v. 36. N. v.

  
    

 
 
   

\

l l 0
PLEASE! a P

Published as a public service in coop-
eration with The Advertising Council.

  

nly y_9_u can
REVENT FOREST FIRES

* miém PAID
INC. Box 6834, Dallas 19, Tex.

KWI K-Bl lT,
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA

HNDHAN |L©RE

7 Y 0 (RAFTS ' KITS ' LITERATURE
° SUPPLIES ° COSTUMES ' PRINTS
I I
All
A

Authentic and “complete for beginners

and experts. Shipped immediately.
YWVVVVVVYVVVVVVVV-VVVVV
104

 

Since l927/Post: New York City
Museum: Monroe. N. Y.

PLUME TRADING CO.

Dept. 25D Box 585, Monroe, N.Y.
Yours FREE. the Finest catalog and
price list.

Name
Address

Clty State

AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA
1 VVVVVYVVVVVVVVVVVVYVV

presented for excellence in bowling,
golf, swimming, and physical fitness.
The AMF awards will be in the form of
specially cast pocket medallions. Official
rules are available from Boy Scouts of
America, New Brunswick, New Jersey
or the American Machine and Foundry
Company. 261 Madison Avenue, New
York 10016.

A major area of AMP operations is in
recreation products including bowling
equipment, AMF Ben Hogan golfing
products. AMF Voit sporting goods,
AMF \Vhitely exercising equipment.
AMF Roadmaster bicycles and juvenile
wheel goods.

Beach Safety Record Stays
Perfect

on THE SECOND consecutive year
Fthere were no fatalities at Los Ange-
les municipal beaches, reports the Los
Angeles City Recreation and Parks De-
partment. This made the eleven miles of
beaches the safest place to be in South-
ern California, according to chief beach
lifeguard Myron F. Cox. Mr. Cox at-
tributes this amazing record to the fact
that the beaches are staffed by highly
trained professional lifeguards—and to
a list of thirteen basic safety rules pub-
lished each year for the guidance of
visitors to the beaches. He points out
that only 661 out of the 3,856,456 swim-
mers who entered the water at city-
operated facilities in 1964 had to be
rescued. Lifeguards also were involved
in saving 785 boats valued at $1,038,-
9-15.

Safe Sledding

YOUNGSTERS (up to and including
seventy-five years of age) are en-
joying new sleigh riding areas in West
Side and Brookdale Parks in Essex
County, New Jersey. The reclamation
of three acres of land in West Side by
filling in a pond has made it possible
to safely enjoy a fine sledding hill with-
out the hazard of coasting over the
possible thin ice of the old pond. The
slope near the western edge of the arch-
ery field in Brookdale Park has been
set up as a coasting area to replace a
bill which frequently brought sledders
across the park drive. Both new areas
are proving extremely popular.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

   
   
    
 
   
  
  
    
    
   
  
    
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
   
   
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  

9 .

The Amateur Athletic Union
United States, at its annual t
Houston, honored Dorothy Boy
cago, (center) and Ben York, 13”
Beach, Florida (right) by select
for the AAU Public Recreation .
Woman of the Year Award. 5

gratulating them is Nathan L. .
superintendent of recreation,

ville, Florida. Bliss Boyce was
for her service to the AAU in pet
reation, particularly in the phy
ness testing program. iTIr. York,
intendent of recreation in W’s
Beach, was honored for his ma
of dedicated service to the AAU
lic recreation and particularly
eforts in organizing the AAU—.
Recreation Association Ad risory
tee, of which he is chairman.

Accreditation Project

SINCE October, 1962, a specia
ect group, sponsored by t
eration of National Profession
ganizations for Recreation, ha
working on the development of
ards and evaluative criteria, an
cedures for the establishment of
creditation plan for recreation
tion in our colleges and unive
The work of the committee ha.
divided into three parts.

One group has been working
development of the document to t
sented to the National Commiss'
Accrediting to establish that recr
is a recognized area of servic .
there is a recreation professio °
that there is a need for accreditat
recreation education as a means a
viding a high quality of recreati
fessionals to serve the public. Ap
by the national commission is ne
before any group can go into a
for the purpose of formally accr
a curriculum. The purpose of the
project is to develop standards f
dergraduate curricula and gr
programs, and other standards f I
reation education departments t
as a basis for a program of acc
tion acceptable to the National
mission on Accrediting. Such
ance will assure the public that th

3
l

Continued on. Pa ;

Race

(MODEL XS-i)

. . . and just imagine the excitement when the Miracle
Space Ship lands on your playground! So realistically designed,
this Miracle masterpiece would look right at home on a
‘launch pad at Cape Kennedy . . . or on its way to the
moon! The Miracle Space Ship measures a full 33' high
from the concrete base to the tip of the nose
cone. Safe. circular stairway of non-slip floor plate
leads up to the platform ladder . . . Miracle‘s
, Wave Slide offers a quick, safe descent back
to earth! Plan on a Miracle Space Ship
' mfyour playground now . . . the countdown can 
th_e"‘minute-”you mail'athewcoupon ” 
on thanexfpage,’ ' ' ’ 1“ '

 

I Copyr.ght £965 by M'ar‘e Equipment Co.

   
 
 
     
      
 
    
       
  
  
   
          
 
   
    
 
     
 
      
     
  

MIRACLE _,
TRAIL BLAZER SLIDE
Truly a trail blazer . . . in appearance, appeal

and safety! Patented design features one-piece
fiber glass frame with stainless steel bedway
and galvanized candy-striped steel pipe sup-
ports. Much safer than conventional slides...
much more interesting, too! Model TB-16 illus-
trated; smaller model also available.

I— - — -.V _ VV—li-H _"-'"-‘_‘—”_‘—’—_h_n—*_"—"—K—‘—r— — 1-"

fllRACLE EQUIPMENT COMPANY
ox2755 Grinnell,lowa

lease send catalog, price list and information on Miracle’s
)n-The-Spot” Consulting Service.

AME m__
DDRESS~_

|
|
|
I
l
l
l
|
l
|
|
|
ITY- _ - __._._- __ ___STATE |
I

.   

Mail coupon today -for your FREE copy of Mir?

1i-

    

4.1'411

MIRACL
FLYING
SWING

Miracle’s flying p
all saddled up and
go! Realistic mou
in your choice of f
rover aluminum or fi
bodies. Miracle’s
u‘l'e’erma-Lok” proc
the bright red ca
over the galvaniz
frame. Model 60
trated; other mod
available.

   
 

  

  

    
   

  

  
    
 

  

DOME WH

This colorful cre
all-weather fiber a
always the center 0
tion. One child ca
propel unit which
parallel to the grou
3V2” O.D. steel col
Model 304

 
   
 
 

  
 
 

M‘IRACLE
RODEO R '

Miracle solves the
breakage problem b
ing the coil spring
spring steel bar. Liv
like ponies come_
colors over aluml
fiber glass bodies. M

«iv

  

 
 
 

_ l‘

 

11 u -'3

  
 
  
   
  
 
   
  
  
 
 
   
    
   
  
  
  
   
 
   
   
 
  
  
   
 
   
  
 
  
   
   
  
   
  
 
   
   
  

who are fIghting to conserve open
. for the enjoyment of future gen-
!ns, as well as for our own, is Pres-
Johnson’s call for beauty in this
n—both natural and man-made.
"ebruary 8, he submitted to Con-
a far-reaching program to beau-
Inerica. His proposals range from
. parks, national seashores, and rec-
.. areas to curbs on water and
'air pollution. They proclaimed a
on ugliness. Some of his remarks
. 5 follows:

or centuries Americans have drawn
th and inspiration from the
ty of our country. It would be a
ctful generation indeed, indiffer-
ike to the udgment of history and
mmand of principle, which failed
eserve and extend such a heritage
descendants.

. et the storm of modern change is
tening to blight and diminish in
v decades what has been cherished
rotected for generations.
growing population is swallowing
reas of natural beauty with its de-
d for living space, and is placing
ased demand on our overburdened
s of recreation and pleasure.

here is much the federal govern-
can do, through a range of specific
~ ams, and as a force for public ed-
"on. But a beautiful America will
ire the effort of government at ev-
level, of business. and of private
ps. . . .

Cities

have recommended a community
sion program which will bring the
Irccs of the university to focus on
ems of the community just as they
long been concerned with our ru-
reas. Among other things, this pro.
will help provide training and
ical assistance to aid in making
communities more attractive and
. In addition, under the Housing
of 1964, grants will be made to
~ for training of local governmental
oycs needed for community devel-
ent. I am recommending a 1965
cmental appropriation to imple-
this program.

have already proposed full fund-
of the Land and Water Conserva-
Fund, and directed the Secretary of
nterior to give priority attention
rving the needs of our growing ur-
population.

e primary purpose of the open-
' program has been to help acquire
assure open spaces in urban areas.

CH, 1965

. GREAT SIGNIFICANCE to all of us

I ‘WE GO TO PRESS
FOR A MORE BEA U T IF UL AMERICA

I propose a series of new matching
grants for improving the natural beauty
of urban open s ace.

“In addition Twill request authority
in this program for a matching program
to cities for landscaping, installation of
outdoor lights and benches, creating at-
tractive cityscapes along roads and in
business areas, and for other beautifica-
tion purposes.

“Our city parks have not, in many
cases, realized their full potential as
sources of pleasure and play. I recom-
mend on a matching basis a series of
federal demonstration projects in city
parks to use the best thought and action
to show how the appearance of these
parks can better serve the people of our
towns and metropolitan areas.

The Countryside

“Our present system of parks, sea-
shores and recreation areas—monu-
ments to the dedication and labor of
far-sighted men—do not meet the needs
of a growing population.

“The full funding of the Land and
Water Conservation Fund will be an
important step in making this a Parks-
for-America decade. . . . '

Rivers

“Through pollution control programs
we can do much to restore our rivers.
We will continue to conserve the water
and power for tomorrow’s needs with
well-planned reservoirs and power
dams. But the time has also come to
identify and preserve the free-flowing
stretches of our great scenic rivers be-
fore growth and development make the
beauty of the unspoiled waterway a
memory. . . .

Pollution

“In the last few decades entire new
categories of waste have come to plague
and menace the American scene. These
are the technological wastes—the by-

products of growth, industry, agricul-
ture and science.

“Pollution is growing at a rapid rate.
Some pollutants are known to be harm-
ful to health, while the effect of others
is uncertain and unknown.

“In addition to its health effects, air

Wt; MUST preserve our monu-
ments and architecture. our
shores and lakes and woodlands, for
if we do not we shall consign our

heritage to the history books. To
allow our landmarks to fall and our
land to be squandered would be to
destroy the noble evidence of our
proud past—ADMI STEVENSON.

 

 

pollution creates filth and gloom and
depreciates property values of entire
neighborhoods. The White House itself
is being dirtied with soot from polluted
aIr.

“Every major river system is now
polluted. Waterways that were once
sources of pleasure and beauty and rec-
reation are forbidden to human contact
and objectionable to sight and smell.

“Ahnost all these wastes and pollu-
tions are the result of activities carried
on for the benefit of man. . . .

White House Conference

“I intend to call a White House con-
ference on natural beauty to meet in
mid-May of this year. Its chairman will
be Mr. Laurance Rockefeller.

“In addition to other subjects which
this conference will consider, I recom-
mend the following subjects for discus-
sion in depth:

' Automobile junkyards. I am con-
vinced that analysis of the technology
and economics can help produce a cre-
ative solution to this vexing problem.
° Underground installation of utility
transmission lines. Further research is
badly needed to enable us to cope with
this problem.

° The greatest single force that shapes
the American landscape is private eco-
nomic development. Our taxation poli-
cies should not penalize or discourage
conservation and the preservation of
beauty.

' The possibilities of a national tree
planting program carried on by govern-

ment at every level, and private groups
and citizens.

Conclusion

“The tradition of our past is equal
to today’s threat to that beauty. Our
land will be attractive tomorrow only
if we organize for action and rebuild
and reclaim the beauty we inherited.
Our stewardship will be judged by the
foresight with which we carry out these
programs. We must rescue our cities
and countryside from blight with the
same purpose and vigor with which, in
other areas, we moved to save the for-
ests and the soil.”

-I Q I

AN EDITORIAL in The New York
Times, of February 9, commenting on
the President’s message, says in part:

“The central weakness in the national
effort to combat ugliness is that the
problems are so diverse and many
sided. What is everybody’s business too
often becomes nobody’s business. For
that very reason, the most important fact

107

plant on Storm King Mountain. A spe- Senator Muskie also propose .
cial committee of the State Council of pollutlon abatement measures
Parks, of which Laurance S. Rockefel- would require a substantral reduct I
ler is chairman, will study the situation harmful exhausts from cars and

in working to preserve the valley’s englnes. Another key prov1sron
scenic and recreational values. In his alr pollutipn blll would allow gra
message to Congress on natural beauty, municipahties of up _to.two-th.1r
on February 8, President Johnson cited cost of fac1ht1es_to ehminate air
the Hudson as one of the rivers with tion from the dlsposal of solld \

resources that should be developed by } NEW DATE FOR AWARD pROGRA,

State and local governments mold 5118' award program for achievement in |
gested that, as an urban r1ver,th1s could ing about “Recreation for the C

be preserved by the same sort of pro- can), 111’” Sponsored by the Ar i
gram that is planned for the Potomac. and Rheumatism Foundation, will
However, proposed scenic riverway leg- May 1, 1955 instead of April 1, I
islation may prohibit the installatlon of as originally announced papers 8
the Edison Plant- be limited to projects now curr
those just completed last year. P
selected by the judges for awar
become the prOperty Of the Art
and Rheumatism Foundation an -
National Recreation Association.
further details, write to the chai .
Dr. Morton Thompson, Director
partment of Recreation for the 11
Handicapped, NRA, 8 West E
Street, New York 10011.

} SUMMER SCHOLARSHIPS. The J .
P. Kennedy Jr. Foundation will a
a number of summer scholarship
training professional persons in
field of recreation for the mental]
tarded. These scholarships ma
awarded for one summer for a tot
$600 per summer. Qualifications
° A graduate of an accredited un
sity.

° Must meet the standards of the .1

about the President’s message is that

he sent it at all. .
“In so doing, he has provrdcd the

public with a proper sense of underly-
ing coherence in the diffuse struggle to
create beauty in our man-made enVIron-
ment and to defend it in our natural
environment. By defining government’s
responsibility, he stimulates a new
awareness of the responsibilities of in-
dividuals and interest groups. The

White House Conference on Natural
Beauty which he has scheduled for May
will also help in the long and arduous

effort to rescue the physical appearance
of this country from the mess that man
has been making of it.”

THINGS YOU SHOULD KNOW

} COPIES Of the F an for All brochure
of the Philadelphia Department of Rec-
reation, depicting the progress in text
and pictures Of this modern recreation
system, are available, free of charge,
on request from Harvey Pollack, Spe-

cial Events Coordinator, Department of

Recreation, Room 420, City Hall An-
nex, Philadelphia 19107.

) A NEED TO PRESERVE the natural
beauty of the lower Hudson River Val-
ley, in New York, has been dramatized
by a plan of Consolidated Edison to
build a $162,000,000 hydroelectric

) A WATER POLLUTION abatement bill,
to be known as the Water Quality Act
of 1965, was introduced in the Senate,
on January 6, by Senator Edmund S.
Muskie (D-Maine).

The senator said the bill is a biparti-
san measure directed towards improv-
ing the quality of our water resources
and making more effective our pro-
grams for the control and abatement of
water pollution. Key sections of the
bill, which is cosponsored by twenty-
five other senators, provide for twenty
million dollars a year for three years in
grants for research and for increased
construction grants for municipalities.

COMING EVENTS

American Association for

the American Association for
Health, Physical Education and

Health, Physical Education and

Recreation Convention, March
19-23, Adolphus Hotel, Dallas, Texas.
THEME: OUR PROFESSION —- THE
CULTURAL FOCUS. For more informa-
tion, write to AAHPER, 1201 16th

Street, N.W., Washington, D.C.
20036.

Kentucky Recreation Work-
shop, March 13-19, Kentucky Dam
Village State Park. For information,
write to James Pheane Ross, 4-H De-

partment, University of Kentucky,
Lexington.

Camp Fire Girls Birthday Week,
March 21-27. Sponsored by Camp

Fire Girls, 65 Worth Street, New
York 10013.

Second International Christian
Camp and Conference Conven-
tion, M arch 30-April 2, Green Lake,
Wisconsin. For information, write

to Paul Nyberg, BOX 81, Wheaton,
Illinois 60187.

National Boys Club Week, April
4-10. Sponsored by Boys Clubs of

America, 771 First Avenue, New
York 10017.

45th Annual Convention of
Eastern District Association of

108

Recreation, April 9-12, New York
Hilton Hotel, New York City. For
information, write to Dr. William
Rosenthal, New York City Board of
Education, 80 Lafayette Street, New
York 10013.

National Convention, American
Personnel and Guidance Asso-
ciation, April 11-15, Leamington
Hotel, Minneapolis. For further in-
formation, write the association at

1605 New Hampshire Avenue, N.W.,
Washington, D.C. 20009.

62nd Annual Convention, Na-
tional Catholic Educational As-
sociation, April 19-22, Americana
Hotel, New York Hilton Hotel, and
New York Coliseum, New York City.
For information, write to NCEA,
1785 Massachusetts Avenue, N.W.,
Washington, D.C. 20036.

National Library Week, April 25-
May 1. THEME: Know What You’re
Talking About—Read. For further
information and program material,
write to The National Library Week

Program, 58 West 40th Street, New
York 10018.

I

Hate program at the particular un
sity.
' Student records should indicate
eXperience or preference in work
retarded or related disability gr
° Summer scholarships awards ma
made to recreation students and o
students who have undergraduate
grees in related fields such as phy
education, special education, rehab
tion, et cetera.
° Applications are due April 15,
Please mail applications to Dr.
Throne, Associate Director, J osep

Kennedy Jr. Foundation, 1411 K St
N.W., Washington, D.C.

b FEDERAL AREA STICKER. The
Recreation/Conservation sticker t j
issued under the new Land and W
Conservation Fund Act is printe
green ink on white paper, measur
by-3” and is designed so it may b
fixed to the front bumper of an .
mobile where it can be easily see
checkpoints where federal outdoor
reation fees are charged. Key w
of the insignia are “Outdoor Re
tion for America” and “Land and
ter Conservation Fund.”

Price of Recreation/Conserv 
sticker is now under considerat

Continued on Page

‘i
i

RECREA r

  
   
  
    
  
 
   
  
  
   
   
  
   
 
   
  
 
   
 
   
  
   
   
    
 
 
  
  

t ITORIALLY

Is “Outdoor
ration”?

e INTERPRETATIONS of this term
0 almost as many as its interpre-
l t all depends on your vantage
The approach of the recreator to
lhject is one of education for out-
recreation. This means educating
people in the knowledges and
related to enjoying the outdoors—
r via camping skills and crafts,
science, hiking and exploration,
. vation, fishing and hunting, boat-
hysical fitness, swimming, riding,
sports, and so on.
i recently published Teaching in
indoors, by Donald R. and William
mmerman (Minneapolis: Burgess
.‘hing, 1964), explains outdoor
tion as “the vehicle that provides
meaning to abstract verbal learn-
through direct experience.” The
ntermans discuss the term from dif-
t points of view. A few of their
ations follow:
hen an agent from a Mid-Western
Conservation District office shows a
p of Boy Scouts how wind and
r combine to act as an erosive force
moving top soil from the corn fields
' lemonstrates with “splash sticks,”
‘ or education is conservation edu-
n.
. Yosemite National Park, when a
I r-naturalist explains to a group of
ter vacationers how the valley floor
ormed over many years by succes-
movements of glaciers, and the
p then hikes to various spots to ob-
, the evidence, outdoor education is
ca education.
hen a group of high-school youths
fly casting and archery by doing,
)or education is outdoor recreation.
)ys and girls go camping. They fish,
, hike, cook over an open fire, and
) under the stars. They make their
pack frames, construct their own
ers and learn to live comfortably
wilderness environment. Outdoor
' ation then becomes camping educa-

‘I i ‘I It

to values of outdoor education, as

CH, 1965

SPEAKING

Dorothy Donaldson

in the camping situation for example,
cannot be measured. Overnight or resi-
dent camping teaches getting along with
one’s fellows, social adjustment, char-
acter building, acquaints the camper
with the beauties and mysteries of na-
ture, and under good leadership offers
an acquaintance with spiritual values.

To the recreator, education for out-
door recreation includes all of the fore-
going and more and it stands for the
why as well as the how of fun in the
out-of-doors.

The Carnage Going On
THIS MAY 131-: THE ERA and the genera-
tion and perhaps even the very year
that the United States of America, in all
its natural glory, goes down the drain.
Almost everywhere America the bean-
tiful is becoming America the ugly, the
wasted, the blasted and the blighted, the
home of the neon Sign, the superduper
highway (leading from no place to no-
where) . . . foaming detergents, the
used-car lot, the useless dam, the mo-

notonous housing tract. . . .
Practically all the carnage going on

is being conducted in the name of some
kind of alleged progress. If this “prog-
ress” were true progress, no one could
have cause for complaint. But, in fact,
“progress” has come to stand for stu-
pidity, greed, graft, malice, and moral
debasement. We have imperiled the

.. - .u out cnies; now the country-
side is to be laid waste. The culprits are
everywhere: highway builders, con-
scienceless real estate dealers, fast-buck
artists, contractors, ignorant state gov-
ernments, the Federal Government——
From “Down the Drain,” by Robert

Boyle, in Sports Illustrated, November
16, 1964.

It ‘I’ It It

Secretary of the Interior, Stewart
Udall answers Mr. Boyle in the same
issue. He says in part, “The land raiders
are still at work on America’s resources.
They will continue to scar and contami-
nate our land until enough conservation-
minded people organize a vigilante
movement that will check their desecra-
tions. The trouble these days is that few
people are aroused until blight hits their
own backyard. Rear-guard actions fail
more often than they succeed, and it is
likely that we will lose most of the big
fights unless enough people get involved

in the overall battle. . . .”

Letter To a Camp Director

Dear Mrs. H art :

It is after one o’clock in the morn-
ing. My daughter, home after a ses-
sion at Camp Sierra, is sleeping the
sleep of the young, while I am up to
my eyes in incredibly dirty socks.

I decided to stay up as late as
necessary to jinish the loose ends that
befall a camper’s mother: a tangle
of dirty clothes, crumpled postcards,
precious bits of wood and stone and
foliage . . . and the blue evaluation
form which I am supposed to fill out
and return to you. I have thought
carefully, trying to come up with
some small weakness in your pro-
grams, some piece of “constructive
criticism” to help you improve your
program, and/ or to show that I am
an alert, concerned parent.

I’m sorry, I can’t think of any-
thing. Surely there were some prob—
lems at camp. Surely some situations
might have been handled better, some

facilities might have been improved.
But after seeing the light in my
daughter’s eyes and listening to the
music in her voice from the moment
she bounced off the bus ( clutching a
horseshoe from Chippewa, Bud’s own
horse) until she fell asleep tonight
( clutching uncounted shining mento-
ries), I can only say, “Thank you.”

M y preadolescent daughter will ap-
proach womanhood knowing that life
is rich and deep and varied. She will
know the friendliness of nature and
the helpfulness of her fellows. Her
life will have a sturdy flexible fronte-
work that will not be shaken . . . not
even by spiders in the biffy.’

Thank you, Oakland, California,
Recreation Camps!

Sincerely,

Ruth Leviten
Quoted from the Oakland, California,

Recreation Department Newsletter,

The Rec-0rd.

109

'M'“ ! P‘l‘.’

 

The National Recreation Association Board of Trustees at luncheon in the Associa-
tion headquarters in New York City, January 22, 1965. On that memorable date, they
unanimously passed the proposal for the merger of the American Recreation Society,
American Institute of Park Executives, National Conference of State Parks, and the
National Recreation Association.

From left to right, back (outside) row

Mrs.
Joshua Rose, Peter Ranich, Donald Jo
ley, Frederick Mandeville, Jr., Josep
Prendergast, Luther Gulick, James H
Evans, Endicott Davison, Susan M. Lee

John B. Tidwell, Jr., Illrs. Richard Col
gate, Frederick M. Warburg, Charles M
Doell, Airs. P. P. Ilianion, Jr., and Georg.
A. Lowrey, Jr.

In the front (inside) row, left to right:
Neil Ofsthun, Mrs. Paul C. Gallagher
Lawrence Pierce, Robert Artz, Mrs. Rich
ard Riegel, L. B. Houston, Mrs. George
Francis, Thomas Lantz, Roscoe Ingalls

Jr.

   
  
   
   
  
 
    
  

Rollin William Pon

Brown,

INTRODUCING NRA BOARD OF TRUSTEES

SO THAT you may know them better,
we take pleasure in introducing the
full National Recreation Association

Board:

F. W. H. ADAMS, New York City law-

yer; former US. District Attorney and
NYC. Police Commissioner; was hon-
orary president, Police Athletic League.
ALEXANDER ALDRICH, lawyer; execu-
tive assistant to Governor of New York;
past director, N. Y. State Division of
Youth.

ROBERT M. AR'rz,* superintendent,
Willamalane Park and Recreation Dis-
trict, Springfield, Oregon; president-
elect, Oregon Park and Recreation So-
ciety.

F. GREGG BEMIS, businessman; chair-
man, Mayor’s Advisory Recreation
Committee, Boston; for many years,
director, Community Recreation Ser-
vices, Boston.

NORBORNE BERKELEY, JR., NRA trea-

surer; vice-president of the Chemical
Bank New York Trust Company, New
York City.

EDWARD L. BERNAYS, one of the coun-
try’s leading publicists; trustee or di-

*Chairman, NRA District Advisory Com-
mittee.

110

rector of many social-service organiza—
tions.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS, civic lead-
er, Washington, D.C.; long active in
National Trust for Historic Preserva-
tion.

MRS. ROLLIN BROWN, member, Presi-
dent’s Committee for Employment of
the Handicapped; director, public edu-
cation and school relations, National
Foundation.

DR. EDWIN S. BURDELL, educator; dean,
Rollins College; president-emeritus,

Cooper Union, New York City; former
UNESCO mission chief in Near East.

HOWARD H. CALLAWAY, member of
Congress; chairman of the board, Cal-
laway Gardens, Georgia; trustee of the
National Safety Council and Freedoms
Foundation.

MRS. RICHARD MORSE COLGATE, Old-
wick, New Jersey; active in parks and
recreation affairs in New. Jersey and
elsewhere.

ROBERT W. CRAWFORD, NRA vice-pres-
ident; commissioner of recreation,
Philadelphia; board member, Citizens
Committee, Outdoor Recreation Re-
sources Review Commission; past-pres-
ident, American Recrezflion Society.

ENDICOTT P. DAVISON, NRA vice-
dent; lawyer; director, Union
logical Seminary; trustee, Gr
School, Massachusetts.

MRS. FACAN DICKSON, vice-chair
Parks and Recreation Board, Au
Texas; active in many civic enterp

 

CHARLES E. DOELL, superinten
emeritus, Minneapolis Parks De
ment; author and co-author of park
recreation books; consultant.

JAMES H. EVANS,
Board; vice-president and dire
Dun & Bradstreet, Inc.; director,
Reuben H. Donnelley Corporation

chairman,

MRS. HOWARD A. FRAME, civic le
San Francisco Bay Area; member, '
San Francisco Bay Association;
ber Board of Governors, San Fran
Symphony; conservation leader.

MRS. GEORGE T. FRANCIS, JR.,
president, Educational TV Com
past chairman, Philadelphia Child:

Theater.

S. DALE FURST, JR., lawyer; presi
the American Social Health Ass

tion; member of the Williamsl
Pennsylvania, Recreation Advi. "
Committee.

MRS. PAUL GALLAGHER, member

RECREA

chairman, Park and Recreation
ion, Omaha, Nebraska; board
r, Boys Town; campaigner for

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 

)ace.
UTIIER GULICK, NRA vice-presi-
chairman, Institute of Public
'stration; former New York City
istrator.

HJELTE, general manager-em-
Los Angeles City Department of
Lion and Parks; a past-president

American Recreation Society.

B. HOUSTON, director of parks
recreation, Houston; engineer;
resident, Texas Recreation Soci-

HUDNALL, engineer concerned
se of land and water; has worked
engthen recreation throughout

and the United States.

E C. INCALLS, JR., New York in-
nt banker; chairman, NRA’s In-
nt Committee; active, hospital,
unity, and church financial ac-

I

--

LD M. JOLLEY,* superintendent of
tion and parks, Pittsburg, Kan-
; ast-president, Kansas Recreation
| y'

UR H. JONES, North Carolina
r; active in community fund-
0- and co-founder of Charlotte

{39
e Museum.

’

STUS B. KINZEL, JR., vice-presi-
f research, Union Carbide Corp.;
ent, National Academy of En-
ing.

T V. LABICHE, New Orleans
essman and civic leader; treasurer

Mississippi River Bridge Author-

AS W. LANTZ, superintendent-
tus of public recreation in Ta-
; author; professor of political
'e.

M. LEE, NRA vice-president.
hter of Joseph Lee; engaged in
' « administration; active 01: several
(IS and executive committees of Ha.
I and N. Y. C. organizations.

EL C. LINDEN, Portland, Oregon,
er and civic leader; director of the
nd Chamber of Commerce.

I i

', CF. A. LOWREY, JR.,* assistant pro-
: r, College of Health. Physical Edu-

I and Recreation at Texas Wom-
University in Denton. Texas.

I. , 1965

FREDERICK C. MANDEVILLE, JR.,“ super-
intendent of recreation, Meriden, Con-

necticut; former president of Jaycecs
and director of Meriden United Fund.

MRS. P. P. MANION, JR., civic leader;
vice-chairman, Tulsa Park and Recrea-
tion Board; active in United Fund
work.

FREDRIC R. MANN, Philadelphia bus-
inessman; chairman, Governor’s Ad-
visory Council of Recreation; active in
many organizations.

HENRY W. MEERS, Chicago investment
banker; member, Chicago Crime Com-
mission; active, education and health

fields.

DR. WILLIAM C. MENNINCER, famed To-
peka psychiatrist; president, Mennin-
ger Foundation; active in social wel-
fare.

HAMILTON B. MITCHELL, president, The
Reuben H. Donnelley Corporation; past
chairman, Recreation Commission, Pel-
ham, New York; faculty associate,
Graduate School of Business, Indiana
University.

RT. REV. PAUL MOORE, JR.. Sutiragan
Bishop of Washington, D. C.; particu-

lar interest in inter-group relations.

WELLES V. MOOT, lawyer, corporation
OfIicial and citizen planner; former
chairman, Bqualo Planning Commis-
sion.

NEIL A. OFSTIIUN,* director of Recrea-
tion Department, Rockville, Maryland.

MRS. CONWAY H. OLMSTED, Chicago
civic leader; actively interested in the
Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago.

MRS. RUTH A. O’NEIL, member, Mari-

copa County Board of Supervisors,
Phoenix; president, National Associa-
tion of Parks and Recreation OIIicials.

BERNARD L. ORELL,
Weyerhaeuser Company: former direc-
tor, Forest Products Division. U.S. De-

vice-president,

 

Susan Spotless says:

KEEP AMERICA BEAUTIFUL

 

partment of Commerce; interested in
multiple use of land for recreation.

LAWRENCE W. PIERCE, lawyer; direc-
tor, New York State Division for
Youth; former deputy police commis-
sioner of youth program in New York
City.

WILLIAM B. POND,’ director, Depart-
ment of Parks and Recreation, Sacra-
mento County, California; pasbpresi-
dent of the Washington Recreation So-
ciety.

JOSEPII PRENDERCAST, NRA executive
director since 1950; lawyer with social
work degree; honorary doctor of laws.

PETER RANICII,' technical assistant to
recreation director, United Automobile
Workers International Union, Detroit.

MRS. RICIIARD E. RIECEL, civic leader,
Wilmington, Delaware; member of the
board, Delaware Hospital; especially
concerned with parks and conservation.

SANGER P. ROBINSON, Chicago business-
man; civic leader; active cultural ac-
tivities; director, Chicago Boys Clubs.

JOSIIUA R. ROSE, member Recreation
Commission, Oakland, California; as-
sistant general secretary of the Oakland

YMCA.

FRED R. SAMMIS, publisher, recreation
and sports publications; member, Park
and Recreation Commission, Darien,

Connecticut.

ARTIIUR B. SIIEPLEY, JR., St. Louis law-
yer; active on county Metropolitan
Youth Commission; in public-safety
field.

WILLIAM S. SIMPSON, vice-president-
general manager. Raybestos; president,
Museum of Art. Science and Industry,
Bridgeport, Connecticut.

JOIIN B. TIDWELL. JR.,' superintendent
of the Parks and Recreation Commis-
sion, in Tupelo. Mississippi; past-prec-
ident. Mississippi Recreation Associa-
tion.

GUS TYLER. assistant president. Inter-
national Ladies Garment Workers; pio-
neer of many union recreation projects.

FREDERICK M. WARInrRC, New York
banker; former chief of Athletics and
Recreation Branch of Army Special
Services.

CONRAD L. WIRTII, director-emeritus,
National Park Service; consultant and
advisor on conservation and parks, ad-
visor to US. Secretary of the Interior.

111

Wildtluwers in an Asphalt Jungle

Determined citizens organize to save

tracts of open space in city limits

ESPITE urbanization and indus-
D trialization, two cities have man-

aged to preserve woodlands,
wildflowers, and wildlife for the enjoy-
ment of their citizens. This has taken
fierce determination, dedication, and
concerted effort.

Completion of a $750,000 Nature In-
terpretive Center, dedicated in Kalama-
zoo, Michigan, last October climaxed
a four-year effort by its Executive Di-
rector Dr. H. Lewis Batts, Jr., to prevent
urbanization and industrialization from
destroying a famed local natural area
called Cooper’s Glen. The project began
for Dr. Batts early in 1960, while he
was a member of the biology faculty of
Kalamazoo College. Because fewer and
fewer students came to the college with
any knowledge of the outdoors, he deter-
mined to do something about it. This
necessitated a year’s leave of absence
from the college, monumental dedica-
tion, and a one-man crusade. He organ-
ized a group which raised $2,000,000
from generous local citizens, businesses,
and organizations. $1,250,000 bought
the 300-acre wooded area, organized the
nature center’s nonprofit program, and
established a $1,000,000 endowment
fund to finance it.

The building, designed by world-
renowned Alden B. Dow, features a
two and a half-story circular “Sun-Rain
Room” fifty-four feet in diameter, with
spiral ramp topped by a geodesic plexi-
glas dome. The room contains six hun-
dred tons of glacial boulders carried
here from Canada and northern Michi-
gan during the last Ice Age. The tropical
plants growing in the room represent
vegetation that grew in Michigan dur-
ing the semi-tropical age of dinosaurs.
The room also illustrates dependence of
plant life upon light and water and in-

112

from urbanization and industrialization

terdependence between plants and ani-
mals—fishes, frogs, and turtles in the
pool and humans on the ramp. High
humidity for the tropical plants is pro-
vided by steady “rainfall,” three small
waterfalls, and a large pool.

The Glen Vista room was tunnelled
through a gravel ridge. A thirty-foot
window at the end of the room overlooks
the nature beech-maple forest. Native
birds and mammals are attracted to the
window by food, water, and recorded
sound; outdoor microphones bring ani-
mal sounds into the interpretive center.
The three-pronged research, education,
and conservation program encompasses:
youth nature clubs, nature day camp,
natural science field school; managed
experimental and demonstration farm;
nature projects; curriculum-oriented
science programs for elementary and
secondary schools, supplementing their
natural science lessons; and cooperation
with graduate students and science fac-
ulty in natural science research.

There are temporary and permanent
museum diSplays interpreting biological
and ecological principles; live animals;
natural history sales shop; classrooms;
laboratories; reference library; offices
and meeting rooms; orientation room;
and state headquarters of the Michigan
Audubon Society. Yearly membership
fees are $10 for an entire family, $5 for
individuals, and $1 for students.

During the dedication weekend, Octo-
ber 24-25, five thousand guests crossed
the two hundred-foot observation bridge,
and visited the interpretive center, many
of whom took the guided tours through
nature center trails. Four years of
dogged drive, devotion, and dedication
have already started paying off, not only
in the immediate Kalam’azoo area, but
also in the surrounding environs.

LAST SPRING a warm eveni
enough daylight for shor
along the trails to see the azale
liums and spring beauty flowers
stage for the tenth anniversary

more’s Cylburn project. The id

  
    
 
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
 
    
  
    
    
 
 
  
   
 
 
  

wildflower preserve and garden
was the result a group of adults
a walk to see almost the last s

H

fringed gentians near the city.
one Sunday in October some yea
The walk was repeated the fol
year only to find the area had be
dozcd and sewer pipes laid in the
field where these delicate biennial
flowers grew with dainty orchid
lady’s tresses for companions.

“We thought of the impending d
to wildflowers in a city and re
woodlands were being destroye
housing developments,” reports
beth Clarke, supervisor of garden
nature activities for the Baltimor
reau of Recreation. “What cou
done to preserve our heritage an
provide a place where one could t
walk within the city and have the
ure of becoming acquainted with n
wildflowers?

“I called this to the attention
officials of the Bureau of Parks.
several meetings with the director
Department of Recreation and l
R. Brook Maxwell and the 'superil
ent of parks, Charles A. Hook,

parks were suggested for such a pr
A few persons who had become
ested and had heard me speak abo
idea for many years visited these
with me.

“When we came to Cylburn
suggested by Mr. Hook, we all
this was the only place a natural
land with many wildflowers,

Ream:

; Mansion of Maryland Gneiss was finished in

2, purchased by the Baltimore Bureau of Parks

Herpetology exhibit in the Clyburn mansion nature museum helps
youngsters identify poisonous and non-poisonous local snakes. The
varied exhibits are changed monthly and attract young and old
alike. hiaterials for the displays have been gathered down the years.

0

‘ 1942, restored in 1954, and now serves as the

:rt of the Wildflower Preserve and Garden Center.

lmnazoo’s nature center Sun-Rain Room illustrates dependence of plants upon light and water and interdependence of ani-
ils and plants—fishes, frogs, and turtles in pool and humans on ramp. Three waterfalls, fine “rain,” and pool proride humidity.

 

“i

slopes, and level places, a haven for
birds. Through the tangle of honey-
suckle we had visions of a place to grow
wildflowers native in Maryland. This
was the place where recreation, educa-
tion, and conservation could be com-
bined. It was indeed fortunate that this
site was already a park. There was no
need to acquire the land or have an en-
abling act passed to make possible the
development of this preserve. Cylburn
was a park and the Bureau of Parks

would cooperate.

“It was in May 1954 that letters were
sent to naturalists, ornithologists and
persons interested in the out-of-doors,
inviting them to attend a meeting to dis-
cuss the idea. The response was fine.
Kodachrome slides of wildflowers were
shown and a plot of the park in which
this project could be developed was pre-
sented. That evening many persons ex-
pressed their willingness to serve on the
steering committee. The project was off
to a good start! Trails were blazed, wild-
flowers and shrubs already at the site
were identified and catalogued. Collect-
ing trips were organized. Plants on pri-
vate land were transferred to the wood-
land (permission of the owner was al-
ways obtained) .”

In November of 1954 the Board of
Recreation and Parks approved the use
of Cylburn Park for this project. The
enthusiasm of these volunteers resulted
in the organization of the Cylburn Wild-
flower Preserve and Garden Center. The
chairman of the steering committee be-
came the first president. Bylaws were
adopted in 1956. Membership in this
organization has increased steadily each
year. A speaker’s bureau was established
to provide talks to the garden clubs in
the area. For several years, reports Miss
Clark, this new idea was the tOpic of
conversation whenever natural history
enthusiasts or garden club members as-

sembled.

In the meantime, a group of dedicated
botanists, naturalists, birders, and lay
people were hard at work grubbing out
honeysuckle, poison ivy, and small trees.
Trail signs were carved and erected,
labels were placed by the delicate wild-
flowers. The park forester c00perated by
supplying labels for the native trees in
the woodland and the many rare culti-
vated trees on the lawn. An educational

114

trail for young people was made near
the mansion. Here games and quizzes
that make learning flower names easy
has become quite popular. Bog areas
were excavated and filled with sphag-
num moss. The violet patch was filled
with special soil for special violets.

With the trails somewhat under con-
trol but always in need of care, attention
was directed to the development of the
horticultural library in the mansion. A

grant of $2,000 from the William

Deiches Free Library Fund and some
loan books from the Federated Garden
Clubs of Maryland formed the begin-
ning of a library that contains rare hor-
ticultural and scientific books as well as
the most up-to-date volumes on garden-
ing and bird identification. This library
on the second floor of the mansion is

ministered to by garden club members.

A librarian from the Enoch Pratt Li-
brary volunteers her services in the
ordering and cataloguing of all books.

At the same time the library was
being started, the Fessenden Herbarium
was slowly acquiring mounted speci-
mens of native Maryland flora. This
herbarium workroom is for the serious
student wishing to make positive identi-

Insensate
Destruction

HE MONUMENT'S of our past have
something to say to us that no
book, no microfilm, no motion pic-
ture will ever be able to record.
Through them, each generation re-
minds us of its values, its achieve-
ments, its hopes. Every significant
structure that is torn down or reck-
lessly “improved,” every fine bit of
landscape that is massacred and
ruined forever for some ephemeral
purpose, such as shortening a motor
route, impoverishes our common
heritage. Not age but significance
and beauty is what makes a landmark
worthy of preservation: some of the
buildings of but yesterday should be
marked for preservation no less than
the most venerable colonial structure.
. . . Without these historic monu-
ments, our land will exist only in the
one-dimensional world of the present,
dynamic but insensately destructive:
a present that will soon be past, leav-
ing as its chief reminder blasted land-
scapes and the memory of buildings

wantonly destroyed.
——LEWl§ MUMFORD.

fication of plants collected in the ~

larly interested in developing a n
museum were quietly but effici

The varied exhibits are of inter

 
  
    
    
  
  
   
  
    
  
   
   
 
  

Through the years members par .

gathering together material for di
in the nature museum on the third ’

young and old alike. These display
changed monthly.

The Mansion of Maryland Gneis i
finished in 1872. It was the form ‘
tate of Mr. and Mrs. Bruce Cotton. 
chased in 1942 by the Baltimore Bu
of Parks, it was not until 1954 tha
terest in the mansion resulted in
restoration. The large rooms on the
floor give ample room for garden-
meetings, lectures and flower show
use throughout the year, many 5
classes and organizations assembl 1
these rooms before picking a gu ‘
tour of the trails or an inquiring vi,

the library and museum. The ,I

naturalist appointed in 1963 now as
the volunteer workers in guiding

tors through the woodland.
Cylburn is unique in that it is a I
flower preserve within the city of B
more developed by volunteers who
stinctively give of their time and e '
Volunteers willingly guide visit
school children and organizations u
the trails explaining the need to pro
these rare and beautiful treasures. I
ing April, May, and June, freque
two or three school classes visit the t
to learn birds and flowers. The prog
of activities conducted at this specil'
park is extensive. Early bird walks
young people and adults are spons
by the Baltimore Chapter of the M
land Ornithological Society. The B
more Bureau of Recreation and
Natural History Society and the Cylb
Organization arranges conducted w
lectures, and seminars on many subj '
The extensive lawns are ideal for ‘
gazing parties sponsored by the A-
nomical Section of the Maryl
Academy of Sciences. An herb gar
behind the mansion and plans for
restoration of the formal gardens
complete the horticultural park.
Thus a wildflower preserve and .1
den center within the city serves 6
dren, youth and adults bringing rec
tion, education and conservation to
pe0ple, a heritage belonging to all 4

zens. if: I
RECREAT1

.‘I

,3: , - Indians open their reservation

t .

  
    
  
   
   
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
   
   
 
 
  
   
  
   
  
    
   

r pers and develop a thriving
“ - ttion enterprise

I
r

l

- My Guest!

e Hackett

', IKE MOST Americans, the Apache Indian is trying to bet-
 ter his way of life. The descendents of Geronimo and
Cochise, who once made some of the most daring and
1ctive raids ever carried out by American Indians, now
their greeting “Hon-Dali” (Be My Guest) at their

Apache Indian Reservation to their fellow Americans.

- Apache reservation, 1,664,872 acres of forest, can-
and mountains in central Arizona, has been turned into

I
5,
f. Apache Indian leaders, knowing that changing times
i
go

a
‘I
In

rgest privately owned recreation area in the West. The

be met with progressive action if they are to survive
preserve their heritage, have used their tribe’s treasury
money from their timber sales to develop and construct
on their reservation to serve the needs of the thousands
-itors and campers they hoped would come to their
'ation. With these funds they built one road that climbs
feet through forest to Hawley Lake. To acquaint the
c with the reservation, an attractive “Recreation Enter-
’_ ’ booth was constructed and shipped by truck to Los.

es. Information, brochures, and maps were distributed
e public during the Annual Sportsman and Vacation

en hundred free campsites have been constructed by
’hite Mountain Recreation Enterprise, the name of the
is business venture. The Apaches have provided each
u the main campground with a table hreplace and sani-
facilities. Hundreds of other campsites are placed along
_ te lake and trout streams for visitors seeking solitude.
r those who do not camp, the White Mountain Recrea-
Enterprise has built on the Fort Apache Indian Reserva-
modern cottages with indoor plumbing at 345.00 a week
~ wo. Camp trailer spaces with water and electricity cost
‘I a week. Motels cost an average rate of $9.00 a day for
beds. The enterprising Apaches also constructed dams

iug five recreation lakes, equipped with boat dock,

HACKE'I‘T, an active proponent of family camping and

g, lives in. C resskill, New Jersey. See her article “M inia.

_ lotels in. the Sky” (hiking in New Hampshire), RECRE-
..’_. November 1963.

, 1965

 

rental boats, grocery store, and horseback riding concession.
All are operated by Apache Indians.

To assure a trout season open all year round, the Apaches
also operate two large fish hatcheries. The Alchesay l‘latch-
ery is equipped with an aquarium and message repeaters
for the visitors’ added enjoyment. Reservation fishing per-
mits are sixty cents a day for the first day and forty cents
each day after. Children under fourteen do not need permits.

This Arizona oasis offers forests of oak, juniper, pinon,
and beautiful Colorado blue spruces. Streams and rivers run
through the land and Yucca plants with their tall white
blooms line the roads. Wardens patrol the most remote areas
in trucks with four-wheel drive. The reservation's wildlife
includes deer, elk, antelope, bear, and beaver. Hunting is
permitted at the reservation provided you have a valid Ari—
zona license and a reservation permit. Guides are not re-
quired but the White Mountain Recreation Enterprise will
make a guide available to anyone who desires one.

ISITORS can almost choose their own climate at the reser-
Vvation. At Whiteriver you can have an elevation of less
than 5,000 feet, at Hawley Lake. 8,500 and still 11,459 at
Mount Baldy. Visitors soon become as accustomed to seeing
the Indian children and their families as they are to the
candlelike Yucca plants and the flowering Joshua trees along
the roads. ShOpping for supplies is done with the Indian
families at their trading post in Whiteriver and Indian I’ine.
The trading post and supplies are similar to our supermar-
kets. Even the prices are the same. The children, bright-eyed
and lively, seem to spend much time at the soda machines.
Many teenage girls wear colorful traditional dresses, others
wear blouses and duugarees. The men and boys look hand-
some in their Levi's and Stetsons.

The Recreation Enterprise has been careful to preserve
for visitors all historical locations and has tried to keep the
Apaches in their natural everyday surroundings. Historic
Fort Apache was founded in the 187 ’s and most of its build-
ings are still standing. This fort's name was changed many

Continued on Page 133
115

 

YOUR SPRING CONFERENCE
PACIFIC SOUTHWEST l

PLACE:

San Francisco Hilton
San Francisco

DATE:
March 20-24

DISTRICT REPRESENTATIVE:
Charles J. Reitz
Del Webb’s Center, Suite 404
2220 Tulare Street
Fresno, California 93721

    

A,

Mr. Reitz

PLACE:

" f ' x If Benjamin Franklin Hotel
.  Seattle, Washington

 
    

-,, DATE:
 - 5 March 28-31

DISTRICT REPRESENTATIVE:
Gerald W. Pelton '
2712 N.E. 62nd Street

Mr. Pelton Seattle, Washington 98115

MIDWEST

PLACE:
Cornhusker Hotel
Lincoln, Nebraska

DATE:
March 28-31

DISTRICT REPRESENTATIVE:
Mrs. Verna Rensvold

1000 Charlotte
Kansas City, Missouri 64106

 

 

III rs. Rensvold

SOUTHWEST

 

PLACE:
Sheraton Oklahoma
Oklahoma City

DATE:
March 30-April 2

DISTRICT REPRESENTATIVE:
Robert E. Shipp

3712 East Cranston Street
Irving, Texas

 

PLACE:
Cherry Plaza Hotel
Orlando, Florida

DATE:
April 20-22

DISTRICT REPRESENTATIVE:
Temple R. Jarrell
2733 N.E. 25th Place

Fort Lauderdale, Florida

Mr. Jarrell

116

  ALL general-session speakers will examine aspects .

   
  
 
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
 
  
 
 
   

SPEAKER for the opening general session of the 17t
nual California and Pacific Southwest Recreatio
Park Conference will be Dr. Max Lerner of Brandeis
versity, teacher, journalist, and author of such be
America As a Civilization, Age of Overkill, and Unfi
Country. His topic will be “Increased Leisure and H
Values.” Theme of the conference will be “Leisure
Changing Society.”

A day-in-depth program will examine “Leisure: B

4
l
l
l

conference theme, “Recreation and Its Aspirations.’
speakers will be Dr. E. J. Tyler, director, Physiology De
ment, Brandon College, Manitoba; Dr. Robert E. A
associate professor of political science, University of Or
Eugene; and Howard Holman, director of parks and re
tion in Fresno, California. Conference banquet speake

be Jim Whittaker, the first American to climb Mt. Ev
He will speak on the outdoor opportunities for hiking

EVERYONE is interested in “Getting the Job Done in
and Recreation” and that’s the theme of this confer
General sessions will deal with “getting the job done
educating for leisure and with “getting the job done”

youth. The outstanding work of the Nebraska Comm
on Children and Youth will be presented by youth recrea
chairmen from all over the state. Special emphasis wil
placed on developing vital, creative, and imaginative

grams for youth.

ELEGATES to the 43rd Annual Southwest District I
D ference will come to a city that claims the distin
of being the largest city in the United States in area
square miles—with boundaries which dip into four adja
counties. Its citizens believe so strongly in recreation
in 1961 and 1962 they voted general improvement bonds
park and recreation purposes totaling $7,250,000. The 1
convention city believes that, in order to make availabl
effective program that meets the leisure-time needs of al

RLANDO is the center of the country’s electronic
0 missile “space-age” production and a major hul
Florida’s widespread citrus-growing activities. One of
nation’s outstanding recreation layouts is Orlando’s se
citizen center with its shuffleboard and horseshoe c01
lawn bowling, and beautiful indoor facilities.

The conference’s day-in-depth session will be illumina
as it focuses on the latest trends in recreation facility li

ingg‘his session will be conducted by the General Elec

RECREA '

     
   
  
    
  
      
 
  
    
   
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
  
   

l

’

 

J‘fillmcnt, Now and Into the Future.” This day-long
1 will have as a reference a position paper on “The
ing Pattern of American Society,” prepared by Dr.
(“f Gray, recreation education coordinator, California

College at Long Beach. The general session tOpic,
l y in Transition—Where Are We Heading?” will be
ted from different points of view by Dwayne Orton,
ional consultant, IBM Corporation, New York; Dr.
1 M. Herrmann, director of planning and research,

' 'ng in the Pacific Northwest.

‘ ral tours will be offered the delegates including one
Boeing plant to see commercial airliners being as-
I d. Other tours will visit the Seattle Center with its
v recreation facilities as well as King County areas which
‘ state, county, and private park and recreation de-
! ents.

0-day workshop on “Programming for the Ill and
. capped” will precede the conference on March 27-28.

group sessions will be concerned with the planning
n ~ ign of facilities, the cultural arts, senior citizens, the
11 handicapped, playgrounds, outdoor recreation, hos-
rcercation, armed forces, parks, and community cen-
The conference will also offer four workshops for
leaders in the program areas of drama, outdoor
tion and camping, arts and crafts, and recreation in
reas. There will also be a pre-eonference clinic for
ing pool Operators and managers. This will be a day-

, it is paramount to work with many individuals and

   
 
 
   
   
  
 
 
  
      
 
  
   
   
 
 

l

".ations; in short, a successful program requires com-
,1 effort. Hence, the conference theme: Recreation, a
nity Effort.

conference program will be diversified in its area
e as well as in its speakers, panel participants, and
. op subjects. Included in the workshop sessions are
_ics as “Music and Rhythm in Your Program,” “The
'phy of Teaching and Its Application to Recreation,”

h'ny of Hendersonvillc, North Carolina. A number of
sessions will concentrate on current problems. “Your
Please” is the title of a workshop on fees and charges,
'. pt by a working group to establish basic policies to
05 guidelines for recreation departments in establishing
structure. “How to Conduct an Oral interview—From
Sides of the Desk” will feature a play-role production
I iors from Florida State University majoring in recrea-
1 session 011 “New Design Trends for Recreation Facili-

|:, 1965

f coast to coast, National Recreation Association District

'ngs will examine recreation in our rapidly changing era

Los Angclcs Police Department, and others.

Delegates will journey to Golden Gate Park for outdoor
demonstrations, a box lunch, and a band concert. Social
activities and special events include the annual golf tourna-
ment for delegates; an all-conference dance, The Cable Car
Cotillion; and a special dance hosted by students, The Side-
walks of San Francisco. The conference will be preceded by
a special administrative institute on “Organizing the Com-
munity for Action.”

Among the sponsors for this workshOp will be the W ashing-
ton State Department of Institutions, the National Recreation
Association, and the Washington Recreation Society. A
major emphasis will be on community programs.

A special three-hour session called “Time Out for Prob-
lems” is being organized by Roy Gunderson of the Spokane
County Parks and Recreation Department and will feature
specialists in seven areas, including administration, federal
and state agencies, and finances.

and-a-half course conducted by the National Swimming Pool
Institute.

Speaking at the opening general session will be Nebraska
Governor Frank Morrison. The governor is a great friend
of parks and recreation and has personally introduced and
guided legislation favorable to recreation through the state
legislature. Speaker at the closing luncheon will be Bob
Devaney, Nebraska’s famed football coach, 1964 Big Eight

Conference winner and Cotton Bowl contender.

“All About This Business of Federal Monies and Manpower,”
and “What Makes Teens Tick—What Do They Want?”
There will also be a do-it-yourself craft session.

This ever to be “looked-forward-to” event is being planned
through the c00perative efforts of the National Recreation
Association and the Oklahoma City Parks and Recreation
Department. The welcome gates are open to recreation lead-
ers throughout the Southwest in all areas of recreation en-
deavor—church, hospital, armed forces, public and private.

ties” will include a series of slides depicting effective func-
tional and cstlietic planning of many types of recreation
facilities. Another session will go into a thorough discussion
of new state and federal legislation affecting the park and
recreation field.

Delegates will enjoy two special lunclleons and a banquet
as well as special tours of the beautiful city. Golf and bowling
tournaments are slated for the afternoon of the final day.

Continued l——>

117

MIDDLE ATLANTIC

PLACE :

Pocono Manor Inn
Pocono Manor, Pennsylvania

DATE :
May 9-1 2

DISTRICT REPRESENTATIVE:
Richard S. Westgate

1009 Park Avenue
Temple, Pennsylvania 19560

  
   

if] r. Westgate

HE NEW FORMAT for the 1965 Middle Atlantic District
TRecreation and Park Conference is designed to provide
a broader forum for the recreation leader and layman to
discuss the problems and implications concerning recreation
promotion and development in the state, district, and nation.

 LAKES

   Claypool Hotel
Indianapolis

DATE :
March 28-31

DISTRICT REPRESENTATIVES:
David M. Langkammer
223 Davis Building
151 Michigan Street
Toledo, Ohio 43624

Robert L. Horney
110 Shepard Terrace
Madison, Wisconsin 53705

    

lIIr. Langkam mer

MANY NEW DEVELOPMENTS will greet
delegates in Indianapolis includ-

 

ing the City’s new million-dollar recrea-

Mir-Homer tion and park complex and its three-

NEW ENGLAND

PLACE:
Viking Hotel and Motor Inn
Newport, Rhode Island

DATE :
May 1 6-1 9
DISTRICT REPRESENTATIVES:

Waldo R. H ainsworth
Fowler Road

Northbridge, Massachusetts

Richard A. Tapply
42 Lake Street

Bristol, New Hampshire

 

FEW CITIES have as rich and colorful
a past as NeWport, founded in 1639,
and fewer still have worked so hard to
preserve their historic landmarks. Long

    

Mr.lTapply
118

 
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
   
    
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  

The conference is geared to integrate the thinking
professional recreation leader, the volunteer, governme
cials, part-time recreation personnel in schools and
palities, church leaders, industrial and military rec
personnel, and interested lay citizens.

Conference workshops will include sessions on rec
programs, charges and fees for park and recreation se
federal legislation, civil rights and the public rec
agency, programs for board members, conservatio
recreation, maintenance and maintenance equipmen
conference delegate will have the Opportunity to d
specialized techniques for handling problems inv
policy making, training, leadership skills, communic
and the park and recreation program. A session on “a
arly approach to recreation” will emphasize research

and-a-half—million-dollar Clowes Memorial Hall which f -.

facilities for ballet, opera, drama, and other civic c
attractions. The host city has recently eXpanded its mu
park department into a metr0politan parks and rec
system, the first department so organized in the s
Indiana. The city was laid out in in the wheel patt
Washington, D.C.

Conference sessions will cover twenty timely and i
tant topics, bringing the delegates face to face with pr
and administrative problems through workshops and
contact with representatives of the federal government
ing programs. The keynote address will be deliver
I. Austin Smith, president of the Locker Division I
leible Company, and a popular and trenchant s
( see his editorial “None Does His Job Alone,” RECRE
February 1964 The Great Lakes conference is cospo
by the Indianapolis Metropolitan Park Board, the I
Recreation Advisory Council, Indiana Board of Healt
the Indiana Park and Recreation Association.

famed as an island resort, Newport seems “made” for
ation. From here, racing yachts start on the 635-mil
muda Race. Its tennis casino is world famous. Its ja
folk festivals draw thousands to this picturesque por

The first day of the conference will be devoted to f
assistance programs with representatives from vari01
eral departments explaining the Open Space, Anti-P
Federal Housing, Land and Water Conservation, and
nile Delinquency Programs. At the conclusion, the
be a session on techniques which may be used for com
action to implement the federal programs. Other pr
highlights include a panel session on “Recreation I
cation-uRecreation AND Education.” An informal '\
group discussion called “What’s Your Problem?”
delegates share and pool experience on vexing matter
other session will be devoted to “Mutual Understandi
Responsibility Between the Recreation Professional 3

Recreation Training Educator.”

UH

REC

APPLICATION FOR HOTEL RESERVATIONS

th NATIONAL
ECREATION CONGRESS

' eher 3-8, 1965

   
   
     
  

In:

‘ v' “ RECREATION CONGRESS HOUSING BUREAU
Six-0nd Avenue South

we polis 2, Minnesota

 

.

Congress headquarters, Hotel Learnington

b - - - - - - - ---------“ ----- “1.- --- ----..--..--- -----------.. -

INSTRUCTIONS

!. Please give all information requested below. If you wish to 4. Be sure to indicate your arrival time in Minneapolis. Reser-
Cancel the reservation or make 3"? Changes later. notify the vations will be held only until 6 PM of the day of arrival

bureau and "0‘ the thl' unless otherwise specified. Failure to notify the hotel of any

2. All rooms will be assigned on a "first-come, first-served” basis. last-minute Change in aTTiVal time may "35"“ in cancellation
N0 block reservations will be made. Please arrange to share of your reservation.
room if poss:ble, as smgle rooms are limited in number.

3. THE NAME OF EACH HOTEL GUEST MUST BE LISTED. 5. Your choice of hotels will be followed if rooms are available,

Reservations will not be accepted in any hotel unless two Othemise, assignment Will be made t0 best P05551116 advan‘
names are given for each double or twin-bedded room. tage elsewhere.

 

 

-

 

Minneapolis Hotels and Rates

   
 
   
   
  
   
   
  
  
   
  

---- ----------------------------‘

 

Price/person
for additional
Hotel Single Double Twin bed 1 Bedroom Suite 2 Bedroom Suite
Leamington X $10.00 $13.00 $16.00 $3.50 $27.50-$55.00 $60-$75
Curtis" 7.50-9.50 10.00-11.50 12.00-14.50 2.00 16.00- 42.00 none
Capp Towers 10.00 13.00 16.00 3.00 27.00- 40.00 47- 84
Motel? 1
» ress Headquarters
rtis is across street from Leamington
p Towers is 4 short blocks from Leamington
~ odations Desired Rate Desired Hotel or Motel
............. "Single  1st choice................
............. ..Double f  2nd choice................
............. ..Twln  3rd cholce................
............. ..1 Bedroom Suite 
............. ..2 Bedroom Suite 
A.M. A.M.
P.M. P.M.
AL DATE .............................................. ..TIME .................................................. ..DEPARTURE DATE .............................................. ..TIME....................................................
s of All Room Occupants
t those to share rooms) Street Address City. State 8. Zip Code
' m reservation to:
Address ........................................................................................................ ..
t . ......................................... .. State .................... .. Zip Code .................. .. MAKE YOUR RESERVATIONS EARLY!

CH, 1965 119

of science, conservation, and politics
throughout the country.

PEOPLE
IN THE NEWS

An investment broker at the turn of
the century, Dr. Goethe was independ-
ently wealthy by the time he was twenty-
seven. He then met Mary Glide, the
daughter of a wealthy pioneer family.
From the day they were married until
her passing in 1946, Dr. and Mrs.

Goethe dedicated their time, effort and
innumerable lines of en-

 

Dr. Goethe at Ninety

fortune to
deavors, each leading to human better-
ment. Shortly after their marriage, he
sought to end the exploitation of child
labor by lobbying a law through the
California Legislature to cut down the
hours a child could legally work. This
was the forerunner of our “child labor
laws” of today.

The now taken-for-granted public
playgrounds that abound in most cities
across the nation owe their existence
largely to Goethe, who laid out the first
such area in Sacramento and pushed the
idea nationally. It was one of the first
attempts to combat juvenile delin-

 

quency. The idea spread throughout the
United States and around the world.
The Goethes personally financed their
trips to the Philippines, Japan, China,
and Hindustan to set up model play-
grounds in these countries. For his de-
voted efforts in behalf of the cause of
recreation and his many contributions

NE OF THE NATION’S leading conser-
0 vationists, philanthropists, and hu-
manitarians, Dr. Charles M. Goethe, will
be honored on the occasion of his nine-
tieth birthday on March 28. It is doubt-
ful that anyone has been the wise coun-
selor, the insplration’ and generous to the National Recreation Association

contributor to as man rofessional or- . . .
y p” durlng h1s long serv1ce as a member of

the NRA Board of Trustees, Dr. Goethe

was made a national honorary member

ganizations and other civic, religious,
and fraternal groups as has this distin-
guished gentleman. To coordinate the
many plans that a diversity of groups
are making to honor him with some

of the Association.

In 1919, Dr. Goethe went to Switzer-

. . . . . . land to observe that nation’s practices
speclal recognltlon on hIS n1net1eth

birthday, a Citizens Advisory Commit-
tee with nation-wide representation has
been formed.

Dr. Goethe first gained national
prominence during World War I, when
he was appointed by President Wood-
row Wilson to handle the matter of
morale on the home front. In connection
with this work, he was instrumental in
drastically reducing the incidence of
prostitution around military bases and
even managed to close down San F ran-
cisco’s notorious Barbary Coast area.
However, even before the spotlight of
publicity focused on him by virtue of
the Presidential appointment, Dr.
Goethe was a name well known to men

in conservation. He returned to initi-
ate the ideas of guides in United States.
National Parks. This concept formed the
basis for what is now known as the
Naturalist Interpretive Movement.

Author of more than forty books, Dr.
Goethe is internationally known in the
fields of eugenics,'biology, ornithology,
conservation, and immigration laws. His
contributions both in the areas of finan-
cial and moral support have benefited
literally hundreds of scientific, civic, and
cultural organizations. He has provided
numberless scholarships, travelships,
and research grants both to students
and to scientists throughout the world.
He has also continuously made- gifts

120

, ,. country.”

 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
     
  
   
  
  
  
 
   
 
 
   
  

of books, subscriptions and miscell
ous materials in science educatio
more than two thousand schools an
braries in every part of the country "
still maintains a regular sixteen-
daily schedule of worldwide 0
spondence and research from his
ramento, California, home.

Arrangements for the National R
nition Day are being made by a
committee, chaired by Rodger C.
ton, Associate Professor at Sacra
State College. The Committee on
rangements, PD. 9010, Fort Sutter
tion, Sacramento, California, wi
pleased to answer any requests for
ther information.

Mrs. James T. (Ruth) O’Neil, c
man of the Maricopa County Boa
Supervisors, received the highest a
made by the Arizona Parks and Re
tion Association during its 15th a
conference in Yuma. A plaque c
her for “outstanding services and a
tion to the field of parks and recreat
was presented by Dennis McCa
state parks director. In making
award, Mr. McCarthy cited among a'
O’Neil’s recent accomplishments:

° Maricopa County’s acquisition
ninety thousand acres of parkland I
system called a “model for the i

° Her appointment as the first
zonan to the National Recreation ‘
ciation Board of Trustees.
° Her chairmanship of a special ;
mittee on recreation for the Nat
Association of Counties, 196
which developed a national polic
parks and recreation to serve as g
for the more than three thousand c .
ties in the United States. 1
Olga M. Madar, director of theU
Automobile Workers Recreation
partment, has been appointed to
national board of directors of A1
can Youth Hostels, Inc. About
years ago, a survey of UAW me
showed that if more leisure time
made available, these members u
spend the time traveling with

families around the country, Miss
dar says, and the increase in c
ing activity seems to substantiate

accuracy-of that survey. AYH

i
r

'6
I

l

RECREA

THE National liec-
reation Associa-
tion’s new associ-
ate executive direc-
tor responsible for

volunteer services,

      
  
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
   
      
  

R. Roy Husk, has a

broad background
. ‘treation and community organiza-
' ' experience. Mr. Rusk joined the
staff as of February 1. He will di-
I (pad coordinatea broad comprehen-
approach to citizen involvement
h and support of the association.
graduate of San Francisco State

0

we, where he majored in recreation,
has served this field in settlement
‘ programs, programs for the aging

die physically handicapped, and as
('tor of recreation at San Francisco

College.
.

      
   
   
      
  
 
   
    
   
    
 
   
   
  

. this type of family activity at a
‘ 'nal cost and I urge local unions
1 ghout the country to help in se-
' 0 facilities and bikeways in fed-
‘ , state, county, and local parks. In
large, over-crowded urban areas,
& is a tremendous need for more
' ~ ing and biking facilities.”

l

Virginia Carmi-
chael is a “woman
who has reached
the heights of suc-
cess in a job that
most men wish
they could do half
i as well,” declares
Atlanta (Georgia) Journal. Miss
I nrichael, who became the city’s first
tion director in 1942, was re-
! y named Atlanta’s Woman of the
; in Professions for 1964. Declared
‘ mmmittee responsible for the selec-
. “. . . she is an extremely able,
icated, imaginative public servant
work in the field of recreation
1 directly reached and benefitted a
i. portion of the p0pulation of this
and whose activities have made a

‘. important contribution to her pro-
. ion.”

l

7' r.

Waukee’s longtime director of Mn-
1 athletics, Harold 5. (Zip)

an, retires on March 1 after

H, 1965

Mr. Rusk has also been active in the
voluntary health agency field where he
has gained administrative and commu-
nity organization experience. His last
position was national director of medical
program consultative services with the
Arthritis Foundation.

An active volunteer, he serves the
Presbyterian Church as an elder, the
International Society for Rehabilitation
of the Disabled as coordinator of its
advisory committee on arthritis, mem-
ber of the board of directors of a na-
tional health agency (and its past presi-
dent), member and advisor to Alpha Phi
Omega Fraternity, and many other com-
munity efforts. He served in the U. S.
Navy during \Vorld War II in under-
water demolition and as an instructor to

the Army and Marine Corps beach bat-
talions.

forty-two years of service to the city.
Mr. Morgan’s annual reports have be-
come well known and are used as refer-
ence material by schools, libraries, and
park and recreation agencies. He will
be succeeded by Delbert Zoescll.

Dorothy Whyte Cotton is the new
editor of Parents’ Magazine, the third
editor since the publication started
thirty-eight years ago. She succeeds
Mrs. Mary Buchanan who retired
after an association with the magazine
that began in 1926. The first editor
was Mrs. Clara Savage Littledale.

George T. Bell, commissioner of
parks and recreation of the city of Tor-
onto, has retired after forty-five years
of civic service. Mr. Bell started his
career with the city in 1919 after his
return from overseas with the army.
He spent most of his years in the Works
Department but was appointed to head
the Personnel Department when it was
established in 194-5. In 1954- Mr. Bell
was recruited to reorganize the Depart-
ment of Parks and Recreation.

One of the first things that Mr. Bell
did following his appointment as parks
commissioner was to prepare a twenty-
five-year plan for the development and
expansion of parks and recreation fa-

Conn'nued on Page 145

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 
  

HEW PLAY

SGU LPTU RES
CATALOG

 

Creative Playthings, Inc.
PRINCETON 1, N. J.

 

  
 

For everyone who works
with retarded children

 

   

Activities
for

retarded children

David R. Ginglend and Winifred E.
Stiles. This handbook for teachers
and parents has 83 pieces of music.
72 with specially—edited words and
specially-arranged musical scores
for use with retarded children. Ma-
terial is alphabetically arranged
and listed under 12 themes. Spiral
wire binding. Index. Illustrated. 140
pages. Paper, $3.50

Order from your bookstore

ABINGDON PRESS

 
  
   
 
  
   
   

 
   

121

 

CHOOSING
YOUR DAY CAMP

SITE

Monte Melamed
CAMPS, whether day or resident, cannot be planned in-

telligently, functionally, or economically until the

scope of the camp program and the goals and objec-
tives have been fully determined. The goals naturally infin-
ence the selection of the site, the layout, and the design of
the structures, facilities, and the operating procedures to be
created. Camp committees and planners will find the fol-
lowing guiding principles and criteria for the selection of a
suitable day camp site helpful:

SIZE AND ACREAGE

In the field of day camping, the ratio of acreage to camp-
ers varies from an ideal of half an acre per camper to a
maximum of twenty children per acre, with ten to twelve
children being the accepted medium for practical applica-
tion. One half acre of land per camper is usually recom-

 

MR. MELAMED is executive director of Henry Kaufmann
Campgrounds, Inc., which administers day camps in Staten
Island, Pearl River, and Wyandanch, New York. This ma-
terial is summarized from a section of Mr. M elamed’s pam-
phlet The Layout and Facilities of a Multiple-Use Country
Day Camp Site.

122

mended by day-camp planners in order to provide p}
of room for an uncrowded layout, for exploration, and
an adventurous program, as well as to serve as protegl

   
  
   

against encroaching neighbors.

The minimum acreage to accommodate 300-350 child:
plus staff totaling forty to fifty, should range from twin
five to thirty-five acres. A prOSpective day-camp site .-
possess those physical characteristics which are readi
aptable and suitable in fulfilling the stated programing
and objectives. -‘

Day-camp standards for space have not as yet I
adopted and finalized by national standard setting gr;
or by state or local agencies, primarily because of the'f
variety of day camps and the various settings in which.
day camps function. At present, agencies make their -
“educated” estimates of site capacities on the basis of
own standards and programing goals.

Space requirements are but one multiple determina
a day camp site; sanitary facilities, drainage, shelter
accessibility are a few others.

ACCESSIBILITY AND TRAVEL DISTANCE I
The day-camp site should be a maximum of an hour's:
ride from the home base each way. The camp site shoul'
be directly adjacent to a largely travelled main thorcll
fare and it should afford the campers a feeling of sec].-
and release from the pressures of the city. Time, exp$
and administrative work involved in transportation 0
campers is a major factor in successful day-camp oper
and planning. The amount of use the day-camp site wi
ceive, particularly on weekends and off-season, will de I
largely on its accessibility. ‘

VARIED TOPOGRAPHY

A rolling terrain with native woodlands and some
ground for playing fields, athletics, et cetera is most
able. Brooks, streams, lakes, and ponds are basic progra
reosurces and assets for any type of camp setting.
ravines, steep hillsides, level and wooded areas make
more interesting and attractive. Level, open, and p
shaded spaces are needed for unit areas and playfields,
ravines and hills make excellent separations between

sites. I
DRAINAGE AND SOIL

The soil and land slope should insure good drainage
rain, and adequate sewage disposal. An excess of light 5
soil is undesirable particularly on sloping ground. Hard
soil results in mud after rain and poor seepage for s
disposal. The ideal is a firm, sandy clay mixture which
soak up moisture and grow grass for firm footing f0
thousands of feet which will walk over it during the se

Soil conditions determine the matter of drainage
porous or gravelled subsoil providing better natural d
age than clay soil or a soil wherein ground water appro
the surface. A site selection for a camp———day or resid
should be one on which the location of all places of V
disposal (latrines, septic tanks and grease traps, leec
fields) may be such as not to contaminate the drinking we

supply.
I'Land higher than its surroundings, with gentle slopes.

RECREA

.7

do requirement. Possibility of flooding or drainage of
utcd waters on adjacent property should be considered.
if the soil is rocky, it will be difficult to provide water
ad sewage disposal. Swampy and boggy areas, such as pools
in] stagnant water, breed mosquitoes and are undesirable
rom the health viewpoint. With modern earth-moving equip-
wt, swales, swamps and bogs can be filled, hillsides leveled.
id dams thrown up to alter the face of the camp and add
ble grounds at comparatively low cost. However, the less
change the contour of the land the better.
Natural protection against prevailing winds and rains
muld be considered in locating and planning the shelter
ucturcs. However, it is better to locate a structure on a
'_ndswept hillside which is high and dry and which pro-
: natural drainage than to locate it in a wind-protected
t moist, mugg hollow. The land should he observed at
*rent seasons when flooding is prevalent or in summer
, - 11 low water and minimum stream «flow exists but maxi-
u‘tn use of camp is made.

[I NATURAL BEAUTY AND NATURAL RESOURCES
i Varying natural resources—woodlands and meadows, hills.
I stream—will make a camp site far more interesting and
- nturous than a trecless site without variations in con-

' . r and vegetation. The presence of a forest tract on the

' mp site is desirable for shade, nature trails, tree identifica-

' . 81 Day Camp,

typical day-camp unit
and shelter

the Henry Kaufman n
.tpgrounds-Mildrerl

I River, New York.

gnu-£-
{ I
H
"I
,
w
-.
{pm
|
W
m
inn-u
.

f

l on, overnight campouts, cover for wildlife, and for natural
, uty.
l A camp site must be suitable for its purpose. A camp
'ch intends to feature trail cooking, overnights, pioneer-
l x . campcraft, et cctera should be located in an area where
t c building of fires is unrestricted. Large acreage of open
‘ 'rlnland should be avoided since a period of fifteen to
nty-five years for reforestoration will he needed for trees

1 give shade and natural beauty.

.! WATER SUPPLY

; An adequate supply of safe drinking water and water for
thing purposes is of great importance where flush toilets

nd showers are provided. Provisions should be made for

11 average per camper consumption of fifty gallons per day,

‘ing all estimates for the total supply on the maximum

‘1‘:-

' opulation of the camp. The average per capita consumption

‘ water in a camp may vary from thirty to fifty gallons per
 Information and advice on ground water conditions may

1 CH, 1965
I

 

be obtained from state geologists or from experienced well

drillers in the neighborhood or from the state water resources
commission.

WATERFRONT AND LAKE

A water area of safe sanitary quality for bathing.
swimming, boating, canoeing. and fishing is highly de-
sirable for a good camp site. Where. safe, sanitary, and natu-
ral swimming areas are nonexistent, swimming pools are
the next best solution to the problems. The construction of
artificial ponds should only be approached after considera-
tion and consultation with competent engineers in compliance
with the state and local regulations. Generally for small
ponds, or fill and drain pools. there must be a turnover of
five. hundred gallons per day, per camper. Costs for the con-
struction of a dam are usually high, and underwater hazards
and muddy bottoms, all tend to increase maintenance costs
and make control and supervision of campers difIicult.

ENCROACHMENT AND ABUTTING NEIGHBORS

Possible future expansion and relations with neighbors
need to be carefully and discreetly studied. A personal call
on the abutters, to explain the purpose of the camp is not a
generous gesture but a necessary precaution. 0n the other
hand, there is always the possibility that a very attractive
camp site could be spoiled for camping by undesirable

no. ._ -r

- o - .- _ q 1...... . _

J) "
«I.

 I ;."1

e: .

neighbors, such as airfields, chemical plants, garbage dumps.
et cetera. With sufficient acreage, a wide buffer area may be
reserved around the perimeter of the site to protect the camp
from encroaching (levclOpmcnts. Good natural boundaries.
such as a stream or the top of a ridge, are. very advantageous.
Adequate undeveloped acreage is also needed within the
camp to “isolate” or separate unit sites or major camp activi-
ties from one another. Approximately live acres is required

for central administration services and facilities. 

' For more on factors and considerations in planning a
camp (day or resident), see "Planning Camps,” Julian
H. Salomon, Recreation, March 1963; “Factors Affecting
Camping Facilities," Stanley W. Stocker, March l963;
"Camp Self-Inspection Blank," March 1962; “Day Camps
That Are Camps," March 196],- ”Water . . . Life Blood of
the Camp," March 1961; “Are You looking for Camp
Land?" Stanley W. Stocker, March l960.—Ed.

123

NEW
RIORIZONS
CAMPING

CAMPING moves rapidly toward new
horizons as, with the burgeoning
interest in the outdoor life, 30,000,000
Americans go camping annually. They
attend, with zest, family camps, day
camps, backyard camps, music camps,
dance camps, farm and work camps,
senior-citizen camps, tent camps, trail-
er and station-wagon camps, survival
camps, physical-fitness camps, state,
national park and forest camps. Photos

of a few of these are shown here.

 

Right: Overnight Camp.
This is an exciting

part of many programs
in an increasing
number of public rec-
reation departments
and some of our
elementary schools.

3.

 

Inn

 

j . 4 ‘. * W; w u
- “‘8 Its, ~ « e. . , . ._ a”?

3+ ‘_ V - . __ . L . w .,., - ‘2'} r H" ‘ . ' ~ ‘ - " ‘1
Work Camp. The dance and other performing
arts are taken seriously in well-rounded pro-

gram of work camp, planned for work and play.

Left: Tent Camping.
Family campers

use tents as well as
trailers. An esti-
mated $60,000,000
were spent on tents in

1964. Children abound

in these camps.

Right: All Camps.

The campfire is not
only a source of
warmth, fragrance, and
cookery but will

ever provide the un-
forgettable magic

of firelight
beneath the stars.

 

Trailer Camp. The
tached to any car. I .
is said, there will be

 

Right: Wilderness Camp.

A camping party preparing
breakfast. This is the camp
hunters, fishermen, hikers,
canoe trippers, and trail ri

Far right: The Win!
Cold weather
deter the hardy camp er
and the dedicated sp
Note use of t

part of the cam]

 

'.
R ., -

4

 

amount of home carnfort, is easily at- Trail Camp. How to pitch a tent is one of the camping skills taught in

' ppeal for family campers. By 1970, it classes in catnpcraft and outdoor living. The wilderness, or outdoor area.
s travelling up and down our highways. is used as a laboratory and classes have the chance to "learn by doing.

1

l

 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

Left: Decentralized Camp.
In small group

camping, under super-
vision, campers

erect their own shelter,
prepare and serve

own food, learn good
camping procedures.

Right: Day Camp.
This is new popular
from Maine to Florida
and from coast

to coast. Youngsters
leave the playground
behind while they

g , are introduced
‘  "95"»; I ‘ "4f? 54 Rel to outdoor life and
' ' ' camping skills.

 

 

RECREATION AREA
STANDARDS: The State

Many state parks are now used to capacity

yet our population is expected to double
and the workweek decrease in the next thirty-jive years

G. Leslie Lynch

TATE PARKS and reservations of various kinds are valu-
S able assets from the standpoints of both recreation
and conservation and each year they become more im-
portant. In many states the parks are now used to capacity
and by the year 2000 it is estimated that the population will
be doubled, the average work week will be thirty-two hours,
economic conditions will be better, a still greater proportion
of the population will be urban, and the proportion of auto-
mobiles to population will be higher. The people will have
more time, money, and transportation facilities, and the
result will be a much greater use of the large parks and other
areas which are provided by the states.

Taking the forty-eight states (as of 1960) as a unit, there
are 32.4 acres of state park per one thousand of the 1960
population and 268.1 acres of state forest, reservoir areas,
fish and game areas, roadside parks, and other areas per
one thousand of the 1960 population. State parks comprise
0.3 percent of the total land area and the other state areas
2.5 percent of the total land area, therefore a total of 2.8 per-
cent of the area of the forty-eight states is in such use. If the
population doubles by the year 2000, there would be only
16.2 acres of park and 134.0 acres of other state areas per
one thousand of the population.

N 0 standard for state park and reservation areas has been
generally accepted but the opinion has been expressed by
recognized authorities that there should be sixty-five acres
of state park per one thousand of the pOpulation. If we as-
sume that amount of land is adequate, for the expected popu-

lation in the year 2000 of double the 1960 population, 1.2
percent of the land area of the forty-eight states would be

needed for state parks. With 2.5 percent of the land area in

MR. LYNCH is areas, facilities, and survey consultant for the
National Recreation Association. Parts I (The City) and II

(The County) of this series appeared in the January and
February issues of RECREATION.

126

existing state forests and other reservations, a total
percent of the land area would be in state parks and r

  
 
  
 
  
   
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 

tions.
New York State now has 8.44 percent of its land a
state parks and 2.73 percent in other state areas, com
a total of 11.17 percent of its total area. For the 1960 p
tion there were 154.3 acres of state park per one tho
and a total of all types of areas of 204.1 acres per on
sand population. The anticipated population of New
State in the year 2000 is 24,000,000. For that popu
the present state areas would provide 107.9 acres 0
park per one thousand p0pulation and a total of 142.7
of all types of areas, including parks, per one thous
the population. If the local governments of the state
provide what they should—twenty-five acres per one
sand population—for the expected population of 24,0
in the year 2000, there would be a total of 132.9 acr
one thousand of the total p0pulation in state and loca
ernment recreation area. This total area would co
13.13 percent of the total land area of the state.

If the population of the forty-eight conterminous
doubles the 1960 population by the year 2000 and the
provided 65 acres of state parks per one thousand
population and the local governments provided twent
acres per one thousand of the population, 1.7 percent
total land area of the forty-eight states would be in suc
This added to the 2.5 percent of the land area of the
eight states now in state forests, reservoir areas, {is
game areas, roadside parks, et cetera would compri
percent of the total land area of the forty-eight states

There are six states that have a larger total acreage
types of areas than New York, and, because of the s
population, there are fifteen states that have a greater
acreage in all types of areas per one thousand of the
pdpulation. There are also three states that have more

RECRE

  
       
     

I
i 1.17 percent of New York State in parks and reserva-

of all types.
lging from what has been accomplished by a few states,

' not unreasonable to expect that all states could preserve
.st 5.0 percent of their land area and provide a total of
145 acres per one thousand of the expected population in
'year 2000, in parks, forests, reservoir areas, fish and
p areas. roadside parks, and other areas. At least that
'i permanent open space for conservation and for recrea-
wili he needed for future generations.

'at: FOLLOWING statistics gleaned from the accompanying

     
     
   
 
   
   
 
  
   
 
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
  
   
 
    
   
  
  
  
  

- are of interest:
. of State Parks per 1000 of 1960 Population.
1; range is from 1.5 acres to 489.8 acres per one thousand
> iation. Twenty-1W0 states have less than ten acres per
0 thousand; twelve have more than twenty-five acres per
“and; and four have more than a hundred acres per
‘and. Considering all forty-eight states as a unit, there
3251- acres of state park per thousand of the 1960 popu-
n.
ent of State Areas in State Parks. The range is from
I percent to 8.44 percent. Ten states have 0.5 percent or
e of their area in parks and three have more than one
a ent of their area in parks. Considering all forty-eight
. as a unit, 0.3 percent of the total area is in state parks.
. of State Forest, State Highway Roadside Parks,
Reservoir Areas, State Fish and Game Areas,
- Other State Areas per thousand of the 1960
ulation. The range is from .04 per thousand population
$428.9 acres per thousand. Eighteen states have less than
acres per thousand; twenty-four have more than a hun-
III acres per thousand; and three have more than a thou-
] acres per thousand. Considering all forty-eight states
I unit, there are 268.1 acres per thousand of the 1960
' uiation.
' cent of State Land Areas in State-Owned Areas
I er than Parks. Twenty-three states have less than one
pcent of their land area in such open space; fifteen states
Ive more than two percent of their land area in such open
It; and seven states have more than five percent of their
«RI area in such use. Considering all forty-eight states as
uiit, 2.5 percent of the total land area is in state forests,
highway roadside parks, state reservoir areas, state
and game areas, and other state areas.
, nt of State Land Areas in All These Types of
,-0wned Open Space. Twenty-one states have less
" one percent of their land area in such open space;
teen have more than two percent of their land area in
i 1 use; eight have more than five percent of their land
. in this use; six have more than ten percent of their
3 area so used. Considering all forty-eight states as a
it, 2.8 percent of the total land area is in state parks, for-

, roadside parks, fish and game areas, and other state
1 space areas.

Provide Sixty-five Acres of State Park per thou-
. d of the 1960 Population. All hut five states would
to increase the state park area by a total of 7,630,488
(11,922.64 square miles). For all forty-eight states,

on, 1965

 

ADMINISTRATION

 

0.7 percent of the total land area would then he in state parks
and 3.2 percent of the total land area would he in state parks
and the other state open spaces heing considered. #

STATE PARK AREA STATISTICS (ARRANGED AttORDIIIG TO AGES PER 1000
OF I960 POPULATIOII) AND OTHER AREAS III-[LUDth FORESTS. RESERVOIR
AREAS. FISH AIID GAME AREAS. ROADSIDE PARKS. ETC.“

 

Exlsllng Additional Parkltudcd Exlsllng Forosls
Park Acres 54 65 Acres per H and Other Am:

   

 

 

 

States 3? '3 g
0 .6 . '—' g ‘6 " 0 g h -
8 ‘5 .5 :5: =5 “5" '53 8 E .2 g E
‘2 a a a 2 a g j; E .2 '2“: 8
a: a i: 3 3 2 a: n at 5 .2 2
Wyoming 489.8 .26 — .26 741.5
Maine 219.2 1.07 — 1.07 401.1
New York 154.3 8.44 — 8.44 49.8
South Dakota 110.0 .15 — .15 23.1
Tennessee 70.1 .94 — .94 1855
California 45.0 .71 314,052 1.02 17.3
Nevada 39.0 .02 7,420 .03 _
Idaho 38.3 .05 17.806 .08 1100
Oregon 36.6 .11 50.276 .19 4933
Minnesota 29.5 .20 121,039 .43 4,423.9
Oklahoma 28.7 .15 84,481 .34 120.4
Washington 28.0 .19 105,500 .36 1,459.0
Vermont 24.7 ~15 15,711 .43 217.5
Florida 24.6 -35 200,075 .93 696.5
Michigan 24.1 -52 319,753 1.39 644.5
West Virginia 23.9 .29 76,395 .78 124.5
South'Carolina 20.4 .25 106,205 .80 105.1
Kentucky 19.8 .24 137,195 .77 48.7
Missouri 17.5 .17 205,406 .63 99.2
Montana 15.6 .01 33,334 .05 1,363.4
Pennsylvania 15.0 -59 565.966 2.55 377.9
lndiana 11.7 -24 248,561 1.31 130.5
Georgia 11.7 .12 210.184 .69 .1
Arkansas 11.3 .06 95.988 .35 .04
Alabama 11.1 .11 176,154 .65 173.1
Iowa 10.4 .08 150.530 .50 94.1
Rhode Island 9.9 1.26 47.367 8.25 9.1
Ohio 9.7 .36 536.315 2.41 55.8
Connecticut 8.8 .71 142,568 5.26 49.6
North Carolina 8.4 .12 257,723 .94 44.9
Colorado 8.3 .02 99,472 .17 132.6
Maryland 8.3 .41 175.881 3.19 52.0
Delaware 7.8 .28 25,514 2.29 49.2
Virginia 7.8 .12 226,962 1.01 39.6
Nebraska 7.2 .02 81.641 .19 67.2
North Dakota 7.0 .01 36,683 .09 100.7
Texas 7-0 .04 556.063 .37 35.6
Massachusetts 6.7 .68 300.315 6.65 41.3
Mississippi 56 .05 127.178 .47 —
Wisconsin 5-5 .06 234.662 .73 882.6
New Mexico 4-3 .01 57,225 .08 997.1
Illinois 43 .13 607,339 2.14 9.4
Arizona 4.5 .01 78.839 .12 351
Kansas 4.4 .02 132.018 .27 50.0
New Jersey 3.9 .50 370.539 8.19 42-4
Louisiana 3.8 .04 199.466 .73 307.
New Hampshire 2.2 .02 38,114 .68 117-5
Utah 1.5 .002 56.571 .11 282.7
All 48 States 32.4 .30 7.630.488 .70 268.1

 

‘Source: State Outdoor Recreation Statistics—1962
Bureau of Outdoor Recreation—Division of Research and Education
Report No. 1, Statistical Series—December 1963

127

NOTES FOR THE ADMINISTRATOR

Riches of the City

“PICTURE BOOK” issued recently by the New York City

Housing Authority shows how more than half a million
New Yorkers live in public housing. In a foreword to the
thirty-six page book of forty-eight photographs, Adlai E.
Stevenson, president of the Field Foundation Inc., and Uni-
ted States Ambassador to the United Nations, said, “The cit-
ies of our nation are beginning to realize that physical plan-
ning and social planning must go hand in hand. Each will
fail without the other. Public housing authorities and the
urban renewal agencies across the land are paving the way
for better housing for all, and at the same time providing
the facilities for the health, recreational, and cultural activ-
ities that make for growth, and for dignified and joyous liv-
ing—for new lives in new neighborhoods. Healthy com-

munities are the riches of the city.”

The Field Foundation made a grant of $10,000 to finance
the publication which shows the human aspects of public
housing. It will be distributed to fifteen thousand govern-
ment officials, business and civic leaders, and others con-
cerned with housing and social problems. The photographs
show a cross~section of families in their homes, at play, and
utilizing the community facilities and services available to
them and their neighbors in developments financed with
federal, state and city aid. The brochure points out that
while more than five hundred thousand people are now liv-
ing in public housing, nearly a million New Yorkers still
live in forty-two thousand old-law tenements built before

1901.

 

Charles Addams, creator of mocobre cartoon characters and “father” of
“The Addams Family,” this season's TV hit, has produced his first book of

cartoons in four years, The Groaning Board (Simon 6' Schuster, $3.95),
from which this cartoon is reproduced with permission.

 

“Sorry, folks, we quit at five.”

128

Billboard Ban

THE New Jersey Supreme Court, in a decision that
on aesthetic considerations rather than on conve

  
  
  
 
  
 
  
   
   
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
   
   
   
    
    
 

police powers, has upheld an antibillboard ordina
Metuchen, New Jersey (United Advertising Corporat
Metuchen). The majority opinion drew a sharp disti
between treatment of billboards and business signs. “E
the baleful effect of both be in fact the same,” the
reasoned, “still in one case the sign may be found tol
because of its contribution to the business or enterpr ,
the premises.”

The court then turned to aesthetic factors and eco
effects. “A discordant sight is as hard an economic f
an annoying color or sound. We refer not to some se

or exquisite preference, but to concepts of congruity
so widely that they are inseparable from the enjoymen
hence the value of property.” A dissenting opinion a
for banning billboards as outright eyesores, without sh
attention to economic effects. The decision is notewor
its recognition of aesthetic factors in addition to tradit
arguments that billboards are a threat to public saf-
From Public Management, January 1965.

Youth Camp Fee Increased

FEE FOR USE of Decker Canyon Camp, 3 favorite sp
organized youth groups, has been increased from $.
$.50 per camper per night, according to the Los An
City Recreation and Parks Department. The new rate
into effect October 1 and is one of the general acti
fee increases for municipal recreation facilities app
by the City Recreation and Park Commission:

The popular thirty-eight-acre camp is located i
Santa Monica Mountains a short distance from P‘
Coast Highway. Youth groups, such as the Boy Scouts,
Scouts, church and community organizations, make u
the facility year around. The primitive-type camp ac
modates up to 125 campers per outing and has
for sleeping, tables and chairs, roof-covered cooking -
with wood stoves, and food storage areas. Facilitie
available for archery, horseshoes, and softball. G
spending a week or a weekend may also enjoy fi
and swimming in the Pacific Ocean at nearby Zuma B

Older-Age Volunteers

Not only welfare and health agencies but also pol
groups, trade unions and service and trade organiza
should develop conviction about the role and place of -
age volunteers, work out job specifications, provid
orientation and supervision of workers and reimburs
of expenses incident to volunteering, and devise a '
partnership between paid and volunteer staff, declar
Community Service Society of New York City in its stu
Older People on the Lower East Side. A central volu

/ Continued on Pag

RECRE'

   

Y

     
   
   
   
   
  
  
   
  
 
  
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
  
   
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
   
   
  

i weeks of fun in the sun

. Thomas

l3 boys and girls over a six-week

it ght and twelve years old, had spent
: r-to-be-forgotten summer with
'of the privileges of a high-cost ex-
Vc camp. Each day had brought
thing new. A regular full-scale pup-
ow toured the camps. The show
ot only presented for its entertain-
. value but the youngsters were
‘ t how to make the puppets as well
e their own shows. This was in
mg with the theme of the camps.
never possible, entertainment was
iined with the educational value of
l f the projects. Three young people’s
‘ ts were given at the Grant Park
iell.
, mm were periodic visits by the trav-
_ 200 which brings small tame ani-
from the Lincoln Park Zoo for the
ren to examine and hear brief lec-
about their background, origin,
habits. A magic show was another
re and a professional magician ap-
, d at each camp at least once. An
 chief added considerable interest
(: camps. He taught Indian lore, au-
I 'c dances and the making of vari-
°ostumes and utensils used by these
I. Americans.

f

‘ r rn-to-swim classes were a feature
. ch camp. If no pool was available
e park where the camp was located,
trips were made to the lake or to a
' .101”ng park. Still other field trips
made to various points of interest
' Cl around the city. These included
urns, amusement parks, and points
Qtoric interest.

ch boy and girl attending camp was
‘I a shirt, usually bearing the name
ie park-camp, milk at lunchtime,

_ 0 Park District.

CH, 1965

JEN 103 Chicago Park District
'Day Camps closed their figurative
Q late last August they had served

0 . The children, between the ages

THOMAS is a staff writer [or the

0 Park District day camps offer

and a duffel bag. All this in addition to
the bus trips at a cost ranging from $3
to $18 for the period the camp was in
session.

In previous years, each camp was al-

lowed to independently purchase the
T-shirts, duffel bags, milk, and arrange
for bus transportation. This made for a
lack of conformity both in the type of

N

~l

 

‘ .

f, 3...“... My “9

article purchased as well as in the
price. In many cases the cost of these
items depended on the bargaining abil-
ity of the individual camp supervisor.
Under a central purchasing plan, uni-
formity of equipment is provided and
a better price is obtained through quan-
tity buying. In addition, accounting pro-
cedures are handled in a more business-
like manner and the possibility of
discrepancies at the end of the year are
almost nil.

\Vith the exception of the earlier de-

scribed features, each camp operates as
a unit with individual programs and
features. For instance, Marquette Park
ran a youth jamboree with several thou-
sand in attendance. This was a day-long
program of athletic events, cookout, and
entertainment of all sorts. Most of the
camps had Indian days, where they
thought up their own costumes; car-
nival days, at which they staged im-

Y
o l
I

PUBLlC 

PROGRAM

" l METHING NEW EVERY DAY

promptu shows; and bicycle days, where
bicycles were decorated and prizes
awarded.

Riis l’ark experienced a visit from the
local engine company of the fire depart-
ment complete with snorkel. After ex-
plaining the various units the obliging
firemen awarded the youngsters a free
shower-bath from the snorkel.

5“” |I$T";-'>#1'  I. 1'" ‘ 9593'! '3,
N I r “P If; Y
.47- . r. ,9

 .
um Wilma

GIG.

'3? l'

3' .c

The Lincoln Park Travelling Zoo visits each Chicago Park District day camp during
the summer bringing small, tame animals for children to handle and learn to know.

High point of the day camp session
was “Graduation Day” at the closing of
the camp. Parents were invited to attend
and see their children taking part in a
ceremony complete with caps and gowns
signifying their successful completion
of the six-week course. Usually a cook-
out was held and the children provided
the entertainment with group singing
and other skills they had learned in the
camp.

The motto of the Chicago Park Dis-
trict day camps is “Fun in the Sun“ and
last year, thanks to an obliging weather
man, it was ably carried out. One of the
indications of the success of the camps
is the fact that the same boys and girls
keep coming back each year. When they
pass the age of twelve, many become
junior counselors and, later, senior coun-
selors. Most of the 281 recreation lead-
ers who supervised the camps this year
were veterans of the program. #

129

DAY CAMP THERAPY '

Mental patients find day camping a

testing ground for group interaction

and new self awareness

TRIAL AT TIPPECANOE

Carl A. Lubbert, Recreation Director, Logansport State Hospital, Indiana

N EXPERIMENT in group living was
A initiated at Indiana’s Logansport
State Hospital when mentally ill
patients went day camping last summer.
The project was initiated for a select
group of patients, but, soon after it got
started, it was expanded to include many
patients who expressed interest. When
the project was completed, in August,
509 individual patients had shared and
enjoyed the camping experience.

The plan called for a visit to the Tip-
pecanoe River State Park located ap-
proximately thirty miles from the hos-
pital. Every Tuesday and Thursday
throughout the summer, a group of
thirty-five patients traveled to the state
park for a full day of camping. The day
consisted of preparing the fires, cooking
the food, eating, group singing, nature
study, fishing, and hiking.

The selection of patients was recog-
nized as the most important aspect in
the program. Every avenue of selecting
the patient “camper” was used. The
ward physician, nurse, and attendants
selected patients whom they felt would
most benefit from the camping experi-
ence. A customary camping group con-
sisted of fifteen to eighteen women and
an equal number of men of similar
physical and mental ability.

The opportunity to get away from the
institutional setting provided a good
testing ground for group interaction and
self-awareness. Every patient who went
had a certain function to perform to the
overall program creating a common
bond among them. Through this experi-
ence patients experienced a sense of re-
sponsibility and social acceptance. In no
way was the day-camp activity geared

130

just to provide something for the pa-
tients to do or keep busy.

Encouragement from the recreation
leader and ward personnel was con-
stantly needed to counteract reluctance
of patients to leave the hospital or ward
unit. In many instances, one or more of
the ward personnel went along with pa-
tients, which helped to reduce patient
anxiety and unwillingness.

The park setting was also well ar-
ranged to combat patient’s hesitation to
leave “home.” Water and restroom
facilities were close by and the shelter
house was large and housed three indoor
fireplaces. This facility made it possible
to continue day-camp programing even
when it rained. Table games, camp
crafts, and group singing were con-
ducted with little lost in the camping
experience.

Since there were different groups go-
ing each time, the meals varied very
little. The dietary department provided
the campers with three menus. The first
offered coffee, canned stew, diced car-
rots, potatoes, hamburger patties, on-
ions, fresh bread, and butter. The coffee
was cooked in an open bucket. The stew
was cooked in coffee cans and, when
heated, took only about fifteen minutes
to complete. The second meal consisted
of baked potatoes, hamburger steaks,
peas, bread, butter, and coffee. The third
offered barbecued chicken,’ baked pota-
toes, corn on the cob, bread, butter, and
a cold drink. The patients assisted in the
selection and preparation of their own
meals. In a few cases, at camp, in which
a patient was not capable of doing the
job by himself, he was assisted by an-
other patient. I

EACH PATIENT that attended wa.
sented a booklet of inform
about the park beforehand to e

where he was going in order to r

4

1

his anxiety on entering a new en
ment. This also gave the patient a
portunity to plan which of the tra' '
would like to take and some knov.
of the vastness of the park. Tippe
State Park covers twenty-seven th01
acres and this size seemed quite
lieveable until experienced by a hi

Another aspect that was found
worthwhile on this project was th
ting itself. To all the patients that
camping, it was observed that fellox
was prominent and not one note 0
cord was evident during the entire
ture. The therapeutic effect of seein ;
hearing nature at work brought re
brance of past wonder and beaut
God’s creation. From the very mo
the park was entered, patients and
ployes alike became campers and sh
responsibilities.

The camp offered a relaxing at
phere and a change for the patient t
for others as well as himself. In
cases, the patients showed quite a b
initiative, such as toasting bread n
stick or brewing coffee in different \
They were able to put some of their
experiences to use, proving to thems
and others that they could still
tribute something to a group. Evel
most regressed patients were able to
ticipate in the activity, and, in 8
cases, volunteer to do things.

To some, the activity of fishing,
ing, games, and cooking was the g

  

est experience. To others, the jo
being with nature under a tree and

RECREA

  
      
 
  
     
       
   
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
   
    
     
   
  
     

i the beauty around them was benc-

itself. Still others received their
.f ‘st sense of worth climbing the fire
and viewing the countryside in all
utiful splendor.

, _ [E of the many comments that pa-
l
5'

'ents expressed after their camping
icnce perhaps sums it tip best. Onc
y lady, who has been in the insti-
r' for over six years, just going
_ gh the motion of living, remarked,
'dn’t want to come, but I’m sure
u I did.” A young teenager said, “I

t think the food I fixed would be
eat, but it sure tastes good,” prov-
0 himself that he could do some-

, constructively on his own initia-

I
her comments were in the same

1 , and word traveled around the bes-
'f

fast that at day camp you actually

NE TECHNIQUE that can he used to
broaden the social range of men-
tally ill patients is small group

action. At our hospital, during a

‘sion at a weekly remotivation

f.

meeting, a group of eight patients
asked what they would like to do.

patient said that he would like to
II t a camping trip. As the remainder

f

   
  
   
  
    
   
    
   
   
      
  

2 group was enthusiastic about the
’, they were assured that if it was
'hle, we would go on the trip.

10 patients in this particular group
-d in age from thirty to forty-five
, and their average length of hos-
ration was five years. At the time
trip was planned, one patient who

3. - arlier been combative was show-

i

improvement in his behavior pat-
; two of the patients were in poor
ct and a third continued to be sus-
us; another was unpredictable in

l
a.
I

o - 'ramcnt; while the youngest mem-
had a tendency to wander away.
I despite these negative aspects, a
*ive bond existed within the group.
‘ ‘- idea of making the trip was dis-
d with the head nurse and the ward

L . 0
man and both of them endorsed it.

n, 1965

plan your activities and did your own
cooking. The food cooked over an open
fire seemed to delight everyone. At the
meals, everyone ate together leisurely
at picnic tables instead of the rush affair
so evident of ward life. A prayer of
thanks was offered at mealtime by one
of the patients. This added much to the
occasion.

The buddy system was used at all
times and during the whole summer no
accident occurred at the park. Of all the
patients that went, only two eloped from
the group and this occurred on arrival.
They were later brought back to the hos-
pital and regretted their mistake after
hearing others in their group talking
about the things they did and the good
time that they had had.

The actual cost of the whole camping
program was $113.65 for admission fees
and bus parking. Naturally, employes’

GIANT STRIDE

Poulieakos, Nursing Assistant, VA Hospital, Bedford, Massachusetts

The ward recreation coordinator agreed
to arrange for transportation, make con-
tacts for a camp site, and supply the
necessary equipment. The social-service
worker got in touch with the patients’
families, informed them of the proposed
trip, and secured their permission for
the patients to make it. It was decided
that the trip would be for one night only.

The next week, at the group meeting,
the patients were told that permission
had been received for them to go camp-
ing and that the camp site would he at
a nearby Army base. They agreed on
a date to go and started to develop their
plans. The patients were told that they
were expected to defray their own cx-
penses, and they also knew that they
would have to take the responsibility for
the planning of this activity and accept
individual assignments while they were
away.

On the date selected, we left the hos-
pital at 9 AM. When we arrived at the
camp site, and after an initial orienta-
tion to the area, including a tour of the
installation, the recreation coordinator
and I remained in the background.
Everyone was eager to participate in the

LJ PROGRAM

time, food, and transportation should be
considered, in addition, but the fact re-
mains that this type of care is continu-
ous no matter what activity is being
offered.

Camping was extremely popular with
the patients and caused enthusiasm
among the staff personnel. The experi-
ence provided much true socialization
among the patients. They relayed their
experience many times to others and dis-
cussed the different activities they had
entered.

The therapeutic setting along the
quiet trails is ample proof that patients,
too, can find release from the tension of
his daily existence. The ability to care
for themselves even for a little while
tends to give them a clearer perspective
on life and perhaps gain strength and
confidence in themselves to try the out-
side world again.

details of camp life. We encouraged the
patients to accept such necessary respon-
sibilities as planning the menu, shop-
ping for groceries. obtaining drinking
water, and cooking the meals.

It was gratifying to see how well the
group worked together. When one pa-
tient overlooked a clean-up detail, an-
other patient reminded him of it. The pa-
tients who were in better contact helped
the more regressed ones by seeing that
they had sufficient food and kept them
involved with the group so that they did
not wander away.

The group enjoyed taking pictures,
swimming, and walking around the
grounds. The highlight of the second day
was an invitation to eat their dinner
with some of the Army personnel.

Some of the comments made by the
patients were very revealing:

“It was good to eat food that was
cooked outdoors.”

“i never saw so much food in one
store at one time.”

“It was a relief to be away from hos-
pital rules and regulations.”

“I never thought it would happen.

Continued on. Page 137

131

 

FLEET THINKING

How to launch a community small-craft program

Charles W. Russell

RIAL AND ERROR is one way to
Tlearn to row a boat, paddle a

canoe, sail a pram, or operate an
outboard. Another way is to study
books on the subjects, go out with ex-
perienced boatmen, or enroll in an or-
ganized small-craft program. By far,
the organized program is best for the
beginner before he has acquired a boat
of his own. It also appeals to parents
who want their children to learn prop-
er and safe boating skills.

Small-craft instruction programs are
usually set up in existing organizations,
such as camps, boat clubs, civic and
youth clubs. A community program,
however, was organized in Boston,
Massachusetts, back in 1936, making it,
perhaps, the first community small-
craft project developed in the United
States. From the funds received as a
gift from a sailing enthusiast, the state
bought a boathouse and a fleet of sail-
ing boats on the Charles River which
it leased to a nonprofit organization,
Community Boating, Inc. For a small
fee, children and adults, both individ-
ually and in organized sailing classes,
have an opportunity to enjoy the pro-
gram from early spring to late fall.

 

MR. RUSSELL is assistant director, Safe-
ty Services Small Craft, American Na-

tional Red Cross, Washington, D. C.
132

The Boston program, good as it is,
however, does not provide the best pat-
tern for most cities to follow. Without
waiting for windfalls or government
subsidies, communities can set up self-
supporting programs. A case in point
is “Operation Optimist.”

The idea originated in Clearwater,
Florida, back in 1947, but it has since
caught on in many states and a few
foreign countries. A member of the

Optimist Club of Clearwater, with
water, water everywhere, suggested the
natural combination of kids and boats.
On three days’ notice, a boat-building
friend came through with the inexpen-
sive and now world-famous Optimist
pram.

Other Florida cities soon followed
Clearwater in building pram fleets.
Some were financed by recreation de-
partments and were administrated by
civic organizations. Other fleets were
either city or privately sponsored. The
Clearwater Optimist Club owns the
copyright of the boat plans and is able
to control the type of sponsorship of
pram fleets. Sponsorship is usually
limited to official yacht clubs, chambers
of commerce, Lions, Kiwanis, and other
responsible civic and service groups.
Commercial assistance in’building and
maintaining the fleets is permitted un-

 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  

der carefully controlled conditio
two reasons. First, when a bu
firm donates a boat to a fleet, it
cially helps the sponsoring agency
second, it contributes to com
participation, which is one of the
concepts of the program. After a
more boats, the more kids can ha

on the water.

I)

THE GREATEST PROGRAM pot
however, for extending the be
to be derived from boating to the .
est number possible is to be fou
the specially organized courses '
sored by a variety of individual
organizations in a cooperative co
nity effort. These may be admini
by a municipality, or by a group
resenting the various sponsoring
organizations, or by both.

The Norwalk, Connecticut, co i.
nity small-craft program for 196
reported by Lincoln Clark in his
book ABC’s of Small Boat Saili ..
typical of this type of communit
deavor. The Norwalk program
from the deliberations and recom
ations of the small powerboat work
of the 1958 Conference for Nationa
operation in Aquatics. The CNCA
it is better known, is an associ
of twenty-four national organizat
which have an interest or active
grams in boating and water safety.
purpose of the association is to pro
the exchange of ideas and the coo
tive efforts of the member organizat
to advance the entire field of aqua

At the 1958 conference, the ide
boating programs as a cooperative
dertaking of the local representat
of the national organizations in
CNCA was presented. The pilot pr
got under way in Westport, Conn
cut. in 1960, and 128 youngsters
rolled in the safe-boat handling cou

Two deficiencies in the organiza
pattern became apparent after the
year’s operation. The town of West
subsidized the program at the o
by providing the facilities as we '
funds to purchase boats. The effec
the town’s generosity, however, W
ened the enthusiasm of the individ

RECREA

    
  
 
   
  
  
    
  
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
   
   
    
   
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
     
   
  
 
  
 
 
   

‘ wrought the program into being,
e result that petitioned funds for

- nal equipment lost out to com-
__ claims for funds from the town
.. Perhaps the program would
ontinued to grow if the organiza-

i amework had more clearly pro-
'- for, and publicized, the size and
I. of the local boating fraternity.
review of the Westport experi-
‘ ' modified second experiment was
; cted in the adjacent town of Nor-
J.
l
' .RIENCE seemed to indicate that
t successful cooperative boating
* m has three basic ingredients.
f r One is the existence of at least
. (lividual who is strongly motivat-
' ive children and adults the oppor-
to enjoy safe boating, and who

u in a position, and willing, to
a considerable amount of time
- program. He should be a re-
, member of the leading commu-
‘rganizations, preferably one that
iated with the CNCA, and also a
who is interested in new ideas

rove programs that may be sug-
I by the community boating com-

second ingredient to a success-
ogram is the availability at little
cost of a waterfront location.
, it should be a body of water
(1 from storms, heavy seas, and
Ifrom heavy boat traffic. A pier
s of floats with mooring space
craft and a shed or room for
i ' classes on rainy days is highly
. le, but it is possible to Operate
uch less than the ideal setup.
communities may he fortunate in
j a waterfront location for a boat-
ogram, but more likely one must
ound or developed. Possible
.- . are a public beach, a town pier,
'. yacht club, or perhaps a private-
~ d facility. The third ingredient
mmittee composed of representa-
f several of the leading organiza-
_ i the community.

question is often raised as to
is necessary to bother with a
ee. An individual might con-

‘, 1965

ceivably be able to organize a program

more efficiently than a committee. The

special value of a committee, however,
is that it can more quickly win public
support for the program and mobilize
existing, but scattered community re-
sources; in short, it enables the com-
munity organizations to accomplish
more than they could accomplish sep-
arately.

SATISFACTION of these three necessary
conditions is not sufficient to guar-
antee a successful program, but it does
make the solution of remaining problems
relatively easy—obtaini ng registrations,
finding competent instructors, and fi-
nancing boats and other equipment.
After it has formed its organization
structure, the task of the boating com-
mittee is to design its program. This
involves the answers to the questions of
who, why, where, when, how and
how much. The who and why are high-
ly important because if we cannot find
reasonable answers to these questions,
a community boating program would
be hard to justify in the first place.

First, who will be enrolled and who
will teach. Many boating programs are
open to all age groups—and why not—
if they do not restrict in any way, the
efforts of attracting teenagers, and par-
ticularly pre-teenagers to the program?
The committee should aim eventually,
if not initially, at having programs for
everyone in the community interested
in learning safe boating skills. Mothers,
for example, who would otherwise be
merely chauffeurs for their children, are
worthy registrants. Special evening or
weekend courses appeal to working
fathers and off-season programs do at-
tract a surprisingly large number of
“frost-biters.”

Use of the boats should be limited to
qualified swimmers. A reasonable re-
quirement would be swimming skills

equivalent to the Red Cross or YMCA

beginner level, plus participation in a

capsize drill involving self-rescue skills.

The instructor is the key person in
the total program. The work of a good
committee can be for naught if instruct-
ors are incompetent. By the same tok-

© PROGRAM

en, the weaknesses of a poor committee
will often go unnoticed if the instructors
(lo a good job. The ideal instructor is
an expert boatman, teacher, and educa-
tional administrator. The main sources
of instructors are college students and
teachers, preferably those who have had
training in Coast Guard Auxiliary and
United States Power Squadron classes
or those who have attended Red Cross
small-craft instructor schools. ( See
Page 142 for listing of small-craft
schools.)

Now for why all this bother in the
first place? Education is preparation
for living, and it is clear that more must
be done to enroll our children in ac-
tivities which will contribute to the con-
structive use of leisure time. Much
more can be done in planning a pro-
gressive program for children in crea-
tive activities that will develop, step
by step, a better attitude towards safe-
ty, a better behavior pattern, and a
deeper sense of social responsibility.
Water-oriented activities are particu-
larly suited to progressive programs
leading to these goals. A child can be
taught to swim safely almost as soon
as he learns to walk. At or before six
years, he is physically able to learn
rowing skills which will prepare him
for and lead him to the world of sail-
ing and canoeing, where teamwork, dis-
cipline, and an appreciation for the
rights of others is a way of life. With
these qualities, he is ready to assume
the responsibilities of operating an out-
board motorboat which, because of its
mechanical nature, and the similarity of
the “rules of the road” to the highway
traffic code, could well be an important
part of the “missing link” that is need-
ed to improve our miserable traffic sit-
uation and other community “jams.”#

0 For the latest on boats and marine
equipment, see "Boating Everyone!"
Page 141. For more on boating pro-
grams, see "Sailing in Quincy Bay,"
Recreation, June 1962; “Ways Along
the Waterfront," March 1962; “Recre-
ation Afloat," March 1960,- "They Pad-
dle Their Own," June 1960; and
"What Is Your 'Boating |.Q.'?" June
l960.—Ed.

133

  
      
     

 

BlGHT. 

 

m _.___..._f we”...

a

 

55‘ ._.‘

4.

fr»

      

' k ."= '  a  is .:
(some TO BE A CONCERT!
STAGE — RISERS -- SHELL

All in one mobile unit
the Wenger Showmobile

MUSIC
EQUIPMENT CO.

22 WENGER BUILDING
OWATONNA. MINNESOTA 55060

F  E Arts & Crafts
Supply Catalog
8. Folder of Budget Projects!

If you are not on our mailing list, be
sure to write for these 2 important
references: new 1965 general cata-
log (88 pages) and a special folder
of low-cost group projects. Serving
customers by mail for 28 years. Bulk
materials or complete kits. Competi-
tive prices. Attractive discounts.

'I'RIARCO Arts & Crafts, Inc.

Dept. R-S. P.0. Box 1386. Evanslon, III. 60204

Delco Craft
Center, Detroit; Gager’s Handicraft,
Minn; J. C. Larson Co., Chicago

EVERY '
[I775]?

(Participating Companies:

 

BIT/[0373'

KEEP AMERICA BEAUTIFUL

Published-as a public service in map-
eration With The Advertising CouncH.

 

134

Reporter’s Notebook
Continued from Page 104

 

fession has a basic responsibility for
establishing the standards of prepara-
tion necessary for professional profi-
ciency.

Another group of the accreditation
project is working on the standards and

These will be the

basis for the accreditation of curricula.

evaluative criteria.

Because recreation education has been
an evolutionary rather than a develop-
mental process, there is wide diver-
gence in the programs currently being
conducted in the colleges. In the proc-
ess of developing standards, it has been
necessary to examine the competencies
required in various positions, and then
to try to define the educational back-
grounds that have the potential for giv-
ing the student that competency. This
has been a laborious process. It has in-
volved, not only the committee, but
hundreds of practitioners and educators
throughout the country. The prelim-
inary step was to develop various parts
of the standards through regional and
state groups.

The materials have been refined sev-
eral times, and were finally sent out to
about a thousand people in the summer
of 1964. A session at the 1964 National
Recreation Congress in Miami Beach
was devoted to a discussion of these
materials. Now all of the suggestions
for revisions are being considered and

changes are being made in the light of


. a
‘ I

At a recent meeting of the Recreation Education Accreditation Project, at t
versity of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, are, seated left to right, Gordon St
Betty van der Smissen, Shirley Caillard, Jean Sanford, Dr. Janet AIacLean, A!

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
     
   
   
   
   
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
   
      
      
  
   
   
 

Joseph E. Brown (right) receives
tional Recreation Association Cert
from. Philadelphia’s recreation c
sioner, Robert W. Crawford, who
a member of the NRA Board of Tr
The certificate marks the comple
IlIr. Brown’s internship with the
delphia department. He is now .
visor of Juniata Park there.

'-

these suggestions. When all 0
work is completed the committe
ask the National Commission 0
crediting for an informal review
certain whether the work that ha
done meets the requirements n
commission, and what further
must be done before the comn
will approve the professional gr
an accrediting body, and acce
standards for accrediting—EDI
BALL, Coordinator, Recreation
tion Accreditation Project of th

I
I

eration of National Professional 1
izations For Recreation.

hart, Dr. Edith Ball, Walter Cook, Dr. Fred Coombs, Dr. Jackson Anderson, l :3:

ton Hutchins, Loren Kottner. Standing, left to right: Dr. Douglas Sessoms.
Kloppe, Frances Cleary, Dr. Martin Meyer, Phyllis Lee, Harold Schrage, W. C
erland. The project, bigurt in October 1962, is sponsored by the Federation
tional Professional Organizations for Recreation.

   
  
 
  

REC

Problems in Summer Planning?

GUIDE TO SUMMER CAMPS

SET
AND SUMMER SCHOOLS
YOUR
New 1965 Edition—
SIGHTS Hundreds of Programs
ON

The latest information about recreational and

educational opportunities for children and teen-
SUMMER agers at resident camps, at private schools, and
on tours. A section of programs for the handi-

Thatrs the theme of capped is included. Easy-to-read format presents
data on:

 

  location and director’s winter address

PL fees and length of camping period
“enrollment and featured activities
SUMMER NOTEBOOK

—unique programs and facilities

14th ed., 320 pp., cloth $4.40, paper $2.20
Available About May 1

  
  
   
   
      
   
   
  
   
   

$2.50 ($2.00 to NBA members) Orderfmm
PORTER SARGENT
Order now from 11 Beacon Street Boston 8, Mass.
National Recreation Association Publisher of
3 We“ 3‘“ 5"9'3" New Y°"" '00" THE HANDBOOK OF PRIVATE SCHOOLS

 

l
t

   
   

5 creation '5 Fa varites
‘ merican ’s

i
if ANK SHOT SHUFFLEBOARD

' he ideal shuffleboard for your recreation pro-
ram. Folding legs for easy storage and mo-

1 iIity. 9 feet long by 33 inches wide by 31
nches high.

‘ merican ’s ESQUIRE

quality, one piece, full thickness slate 10p,
rofessmnal-type table that is built to last and

est. All formica cabinet. Available in 7 and
foot Sizes.

  

For full details and color brochures write:

‘ merican SHUFFLEBOARD co.

‘ PATERSON PLANK ROAD, UNION CITY, N. J.
l) UNion 5-6633

1

 

- , 1965

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 135

SKIN AND SCUBA TRAINING GAMES

 

Frank J. Scalli

URING THE PAST YEARS, there have been many good
D basic training programs for the skin and scuba-div-
ing instructor to use, all of which were designed by
other instructors. Very often an instructor would take por-
tions from a number of these programs and make up What
he felt was his own training program. With the introduction
of the national YMCA skin and scuba-diving program and
the publication of its basic standard course, teaching pro-
grams have become more standardized. However, skin and
scuba-diving training can be made even more educational
and_enjoyable with the following games which have been
deviSed as another stepping-stone toward producing ade-
quately trained students who will feel and act at home in
the water—safety being the main goal. While these games
are not designed to be played merely for fun, the student
not only enjoys himself and looks forward to his next class,
but also gains added command of his equipment and, most
important, of himself in the water. It is suggested that an
instructor devote time after every pool session to engage
in one or more of these training games.

UNDERWATER SOCCER

This game can begin the very first session after the stu-
dents have used a face mask, this being the only piece of
equipment needed to participate. The students should be
broken down into two teams and lined up on each side of
the pool at the deep end or at least in seven feet of water.
The puck should be a lead weight of about three pounds with
no sharp edges and should be placed in the center of the
pool by an instructor.

On a signal from the instructor, both teams enter the wa-
ter and start the game. The puck can be touched only with
the feet (no hands), each team trying to move the puck
toward its goal, the opposite side of the pool. Goalies may
be used if both teams agree. The time for each goal should

Digested with permission from the report of the 11th Annual
Meeting of the Conference for National Conference in Aqua-
tics. MR. SCALLI is with the Boston Sea Rovers and is a

member of the National YMCA Skin. and Scuba Diving

Committee.

136

SI

I
I
I
t

be limited to three minutes, and not more than t“
should constitute a game.

The instructor should take a few minutes after t
while students are resting and reemphasize how da
over-exertion can be in the water.

WATERBALL

This game can start after the students have lea
use the face mask and flippers, which are all the eq
needed to participate. The students should be brok
into two teams and placed at each end of the pool. ‘
plastic ball about six inches in diameter, with enou
in it to cause it to sink when dropped into the water
be used. The goals should be two inner tubes on the '
the purpose being to get the ball into the inner tub
opposite team. After each goal is scored, the teams
change goals. The game should last no longer th
minutes for each goal, and the best out of three go

After the game is finished, the students, while
should be given a short lecture on over-exertion, wh
may have more respect for now. After the game h
played the second time, it may be very beneficial
students in the water, making them “snorkel” a nu
lengths while still tired. This could be eXplained
feeling one may get after surfacing while being exe
having to swim on the surface. This could also be i

to teach surface resting or survival.

MASK AND SNDRKEL CLEARING

This game can start after the students have lea
clear their masks and snorkels, the only pieces of eq
needed to participate. The students should be brok
into two teams and placed at each side of the dee
the pool. One student from each team should enter
ter together, dive, and recover his mask and snorkel
on the bottom by the instructor), clear the mask on
tom, surface, clear the snorkel, and return to his u
of the pool. The time taken and the amount of wat

In;
0-

;nask should decide the winner. Then the next two

should enter the water and proceed in the same ma

RE

O

   
 
   
   
  
  
  
 
   
 
  
   
   
  
   
  
   
 

9
tr the game the instructor should explain to the stu-

that if they learn to think before they act and relax
- water, they should be able to accomplish this game

’58.
ATER D'O'NHIHG AND RELAY RACE

game can be played after the students have gained
1 c knowledge of ditching and donning equipment
- relaxed in performing these skills. The equipment
« game should be a tank and regulator for each student,

.4 on the bottom of the deep end, with the air shut off.
student should be wearing a mask, flippers, and snor-

' class can be broken down into two teams. The start-
‘ int should be in the water at the shallow end of the
On a signal from the instructor, one student from
am leaves the shallow end, swimming on the surface
(1 the deep end. The student then dives to any unit,
the air on, dons the equipment, swims underwater
shallow end, surfaces, and starts the next teammate

ll harnesses should be connected with quick releases
the student surfaces and starts his teammate. The

actor should eXplain that racing is usually not a part
ing, but there are times when a student will have to

y quickly to avoid trouble and this can only be done
ing well trained and relaxed in the water.

DECATHlON

". game can be played after the students have completed
training skills of the basic scuba-diving course. The
ment for the game should consist of masks, flippers,
Us, tanks, and regulators. If weight belts are needed,
hould be worn during the whole deeathlon.

- class should be broken down into teams of two, and

.. Stride

Continued from Page 131
to these patients.
vcr went on a camping trip he-

eommon occurrences to the average in-
dividual appearcd to be strange and new

RECREATION
DIGEST

the starting position should be the deep end of the pool. On
a signal from the instructor, the teams start. The number
of teams starting depends on the size of the pool. Two or
three teams may start together. The events are as follows:

1. Teams start with the hookup of equipment on thc pool
deck, and entry into the water (thc instructor should check
quick releases and air reserves without stopping the stu-
dents).

2. After entry into the water, teams snorkel fifty yards.
Back at the deep end, teams dive to the bottom on com-

 

 

pressed air and accomplish the following:

3. Remove the face mask, replace, and clear.

4. Remove the mouth piece, replace, and clear.

5. Remove the face mask and swim two lengths under-
water.

6. “Buddy breathe” two lengths of the pool.

7. Ditch and don equipment.

8. Surface and snorkel two lengths of the pool.

9. Tread water at the deep end of the pool, remove the
tank and regulator, and tow on the surface to the shallow

I

end.

10. Leave the water at the shallow end and remove all
equipment—regulator from tank, et cetera.

The instructor should pay special attention to how stu-
dents behave while in and out of the water. It should be
stressed that not only time is a factor, but also performance
such as quick releases, air reserves, contact with buddy, and
calmness in water. The first team finished does not neces-
sarily win if their procedure was not correct. This policy
should eliminate any haphazard procedures in or out of
the water.

These are only a few of the games that an instructor can
use. You should take it upon yourself to use some of these
games or design some of your own, utilizing the pool and
facilities available. #

 

and automobile show rooms. During the
visits patients will be made aware of the
changes in construction and materials
used in making cars.

  
   
  
    
   
  
   
 

so crazy little ears.”

il’d have to he a millionaire to
se prices every day.”

rvations of this sort show that
‘rm patients need to be exposed to
« situations before they are ready
'c the hospital. Some of these pa-
had ncvcr been in a supermarket.
crc unfamiliar with many types
ds and amazed at the rangc of
Some had never seen thc compact

-eign cars. Many things that are

, 1965

This camping trip provided pleasure
for the group but the greatest benefit
was the therapeutic value derived by the
patients. The cxpcrienee dcmonstratcd
that there are varied ways in which
nursing personnel can prepare the pa-
tients for eventual discharge from the
hospital.

Some of our immediate plans include
teaching patients to use the dial tele-
phone and planning trips for them to
local shopping centers and frozen food
lockers. We plan to visit industrial plants

\Vc hope to do more than initiate an
institutional curc. We are introducing
a variety of social situations which re-
quire adaptation to other individuals
and the day-to-day process of work.
recreation, and socialization. As the pa-
tient adjusts to his new responsibilities.
it is hoped that hospital supports can be
reduced and that his own security will
he enhanced—From Thc Correspon-
dent. published by the National League
for Nursing.

137

STATE

AND

LOCAL
DEVELOPMENTS

ELVIRA DELANY

CALIFORNIA. The Rellim Redwood Company of Cres-

cent City has granted California’s Division of Beaches and
Parks free use of parts of its private road system and prop-
erty to expedite construction of a major public campground
in the Mill Creek area of Del Norte Coast Redwood State
Park, south of Crescent City. State Parks and Recreation
Director Charles A. DeTurk declares that construction access
through Rellim property will result in substantial savings to
California taxpayers. It will provide the contractors imme-
diate access over a Rellim road rather than over the steep
grade of a park road to be constructed next summer.
“Another advantage to the public is that we expect this
access to enable us to make this new camping area available
to the public by June, 1966, a year sooner than would other-
wise be possible,” Mr. DeTurk added. Darrell Schroeder,
Rellim vice-president, says his company is eager to cooperate
in the opening up of more of the land that the state now owns
and which is intended for public use. “The full value of park
property can be realized only when it is developed for public
enjoyment. We are cooperating fully with the department
to help minimize its costs in constructing public recreation

areas. We feel it is our obligation as taxpayers to cooperate
in these matters.”

ILLINOIS. A waterway tourism promotion plan has been
launched in Illinois that could set a precedent for other
state, regional, and national promotions of boating and
boating facilities. The plan is to establish “waterway trails,”
similar to the historical trails overland that long have been
popular tourist attractions. Last summer Governor Otto
Kerner inaugurated Illinois Waterway Trails by leading a
four-day boat tour up the entire length of the Illinois River
from Alton, Illinois, on the Mississippi River to the Chicago
area. The tour was sponsored by the Illinois Boating Coun-
cil and the Illinois State Board of Economic Development.
While the primary aim of this program is to publicize the
tourist attractions of the state’s waterways, increased tourist
traflic by boat is bound to be helpful to state recreation
planners in pinpointing the places where it is desirable to
build or improve boating facilities.

0 Plans have been approved for construction of a $200,000

138

  
  
 
 
  
 
  
      
   
    
  
 
 
   
   
 
 
  
   
  
 
  
  
 
 
   
  
  
   
  
   
   
  
 
  
  
  

boat landing dock on the north bank of the Little Ca "
River, approximately one mile west of the Calumet Ex
way in Beaubien Woods. This is on Cook County ‘
Preserve District property. The proposed work will a
of a steel sheet piling bulkhead for a distance of abo
feet. Timber mooring posts spaced ten feet apart
be part of the dock. At the upstream and downstrea I

of the dock plans call for two concrete forty-foot wide 1 .
ing ramps. Dredging will extend fifty-five feet out i
river and will be close to five feet deep. The dredged m
will be used as fill on shore. The launching and dock fa
will accommodate small pleasure craft primarily up t
teen feet in length. This project will probably be fi
jointly by the county and Illinois Conservation Depar

NEW HAMPSHIRE. The third of three major sta
reation projects, developed at a total cost of mor
$1,250,000 on the state’s seacoast is now completed.
Sands State Park in Rye, a former wayside picnic ar
been developed since last year into an eighteen-acr
park capable of accommodating up to three thousa -
sons. Developed at a cost of $723,400, Wallis San
one of three coastal recreation projects given priority
the $9,000,000 state park expansion program authori
the 1961 Legislature. '

The other two projects, completed last year, were t
Shell, a modern, $372,905 recreation complex in the u
sector of Hampton Beach; and both on-shore and 'l
facilities developed at Rye Harbor at a cost to date of
236—the first phase of a proposed $3,000,000, lon

harbor improvement project.

PENNSYLVANIA. Included in the state’s 210 proje

the largest and smallest urban renewal projects in the
———Eastwick and Gates House, respectively. Eastwi
largest and most diversified urban renewal undertak
the United States, covers four square miles in Philad
A former swamp and blighted area, the $100,000,00
wick section is being transformed into a new city w'
city comprised of ten thousand to twelve thousand resi
together with shOpping centers and industrial parks.
The smallest urban renewal project in the country
four—tenths of an acre Gates House Project in York
as the headquarters of General Horatio Gates, A r
adjutant general during the Revolutionary War, '
Gates House and the adjoining Golden Plough Tavern
Washington and Lafayette were entertained, were sav
oblivion through the redevelopment process. Res
work, using urban renewal funds, was begun in 196
completion it will serve as a historic tourist attracti
become an integral part of Colonial York.
Pennsylvania can point with pride to many outs
examples of the possibilities of urban renewal. Amo
are Pittsburgh’s Golden Triangle and Allegheny
Philadelphia’s Independence Hall and Society Hill
Peach Sasafrass and Liberty Sasafrass Projects, and 6
Union Street Project—one of America’s outstandi

’lgnt housing projects.

cha

  
     
   
   
 
 
   
    
   
   
   
   
   

EARCH BRIEFS
l

 t for Identity

Io: CITY OF Vallejo, California, must fight to re-route
l

,2 rec proposed freeways which threaten her future poten-
‘ group of Stanford student planners have warned city
-. Professor Thomas Williamson’s thirteen students in
‘ ord’s architecture program conducted a ten-week study

1 city at the request of the Vallejo Rotary Club and
uty’s Community Development Council. They stressed
lllt} freeways must he diverted before they cut off the
lrom its own waterfront or hisect the proposed Lake
f t residential area. The students’ presentation, via

f and diagrams, emphasized that Vallejo must halt its
I it “urban sprawl” and tie itself together as an entity
l h a revitalized “Old Downtown” and a green-belted
‘ r. They pointed out that Vallejo’s historical importance
5 natural geographical charm and beauty—“facing the
1 and backed by rolling hills”—were too valuable to be
ed away for lack of a master plan. Vallejo must make
its status as a transportation center for the North Bay
‘ ies and turn this to its advantage.

study stated that historic buildings must be turned
mdmarks, while others too far gone must be removed.
'pes must be shrewdly planned for both Single-family
‘V ntial and high-rise apartments, taking care that the

)S are left free with natural growth and established as

l

l

 

9 al park and hiking areas. Park areas must be in-
u- and spectacular city portals established to reinforce
“ 0’s identity.

‘ Iejo already has a lot of good things going for it, the
pointed out—the Marina Vista redevelopment plan,

ll . .
eellent City-school recreatlon program, and the pro-

: development of Lake Chabot Park on the north. The
.‘ suggested transforming the existing Dalwigk catch
‘ at the southern entrance into a scenic lake surrounded
-idential development, similar to Oakland’s Lake Mer-
il park-lined canal might be dug from this lake through
‘ y to the Mare lsland channel, creating an island which

‘ be developed as the high density city center of the
l

l

ARKS AND
tCREATIUN
lRECTORS

.ET YOUR
.OPY NOW!

H, 1965

 

future. The. waterfront along the channel would he developed
with a major sccnie promenade. houseboat development.
and aquatic recreation facilities. lf Vallejo can re-l'oeus
herself as a civic entity and draw on this potential, “lt n ill
be clear that the city is destined for a productive and vital
future” ‘possilily becomingr “the best place to live in
Northern California.”

From Seven to Ten

THE THIRD AND LAST report on a six-year study of Boys’
Club members entitled Needs and Interests of 7-8-9-10
Year-Old Boys’ Club Members, includes information from
experienced staff through nationwide interviews and ques-
tioning of their observations and contacts with boy mem-
bers in all phases of club life. Observers also followed

individual boys around their Boys’ Clubs and recorded what
each boy said and did.

“A good number of boys select low-organized games, such
as tag and relays,” the study reveals, “as a first or second
activity (in the club). This probably reflects the boys’ need
for some structuring of activities that is uncomplicated by
highly defined rules, physical demands, and social refine-
ments beyond their understanding and ability. In this type
of situation, skilled leaders with knowledge of child psy-
chology, childhood games, and especially lead-up games or
activities, play a most important role.”

“Most (children) are insatiably curious and interested in
exploring the new or unknown,” the report states. “They
can and will, if given the opportunity, express themselves in
a variety of ways. While their physical energy rises and falls,
their mental drive or curiosity remains constantly high.
. . . Boys are hungry to learn, to explore, and they are known
to be equally interested in mental and physical adventures,
but because in many ways their world is limited, most are
utterly dependent upon adults for the variety and intensity
of their experiences.”

The sixty-four-page report is available for $1.50 from the
Boys’ Clubs of America, 771 First Avenue, New York 10017.

New booklet helps you plan a
high-security, revenue-producing
checking system

Sentinel’s design breakthrough offers you escape from obsolete
concepts in self-service checking. Concealed locks remove
known pry-out risks . . . variable fees through any coin combina-
tion increases revenue . . . quick change for tree service . . .
only two moving. replaceable parts mean low owning cost and
long life. Write today: Sentinel Lockers, Loudonville, Ohio.

SW
AUTOMATIC CHECKING SYSTEMS

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 139

 

MARKET NEWS

0 SILENCE IS A LOVELY SOUND. A major step forward in noise
abatement has been achieved with the deveIOpment of a
completely silenced diesel-powered generator which provides
mobile electric power for unlimited outdoor-indoor applica-
tions without the annoyance of operating sounds. The
Silenced Generator is a significant breakthrough in acousti-
cal engineering and treatment of exhaust fumes, two impor-
tant concerns of our cities today .

Every-day applications include municipal night-lighting
for sports and entertainments, summer theaters, camps,
arenas, outdoor festivals, and marinas. Further information

can be obtained from the Silent Generator Company, 10-11
38th Avenue, Long Island City, New York 11101.

0 KNOTTY PROBLEMS? Knot tying is an old and practical
craft. A new visual aid teaching forty knots is a 5”-by-8”
heavy card, printed in red and white on both sides. Match-
ing red and white rope makes it easy to follow the knot

in 2‘
m '
w 3”.  6,2 M

muss aft v _

designs. It is priced at 3.50 per set. Additional information
and quantity prices are available from Forty Knots, 2112
Linden Lane, Palatine, Illinois.

0 INSTANT SOUND TRUCK. Any car or truck can be equipped
for clear powerful soundcasting in just forty-five seconds
with the new Ampli-Vox Sound Cruiser mobile sound sys-
tem. You plug the amplifier into your automobile cigarette-
lighter socket, clamp the speakers to the roof, turn on and
talk. The controls are easy to reach and easy to use. The two
Implex horn speakers supplied with the Sound Cruiser are
capable of handling full amplifier output. They are mounted
on a car-top carrier which clamps readily and conveniently
to the car. The speakers are weatherproof, and will not be
damaged by rain, snow, or temperature extremes. The hand-
held microphone is supplied with a five-foot coil cord and
push-to-talk switch. It is extremely rugged and able to with-

 

P
stand the rigors of mobile use. Can be used for lar

field events, Olympic-type meets, parades, pageant a ‘
vals, and jamborees. Complete information is availa

Perma-Power, 5740 North Tripp Avenue, Chicago}

   
  

0 EXAMINE YOUR WORLD. Practically everybody '
something . . . buttons, match boxes, coins, stamps.
the most fascinating new hobbies to come along 3
time is “element collecting,” the systematic hunt 9‘
cataloging of, the 103 basic elements, ninety of whi
is fascinating and instructive fun for young peo
adults alike. l
A portable display case contains complete instrt':
two different, easy-to-read books, a periodic table of "
known elements, plus five clear vinyl plastic shee '

up the substance of our earthly environment. The ‘

twenty pockets each for housing samples. Special
index sheets back up each of the heavy-duty element '
These give the element’s name,its symbol, and atomic I
All of this material is compactly contained in an at
black, simulated pinseal leather binder, with slideawa ' -
ing handles. The large, sturdy binder measures 11
101/2”, is convenient to'carry, easy to store. An acco
ing 36-page instruction manual opens the fascinati
of element collecting to the beginner and includes t
tions on methods and sources. Two other texts, The El
by C. R. Hammond, and Atoms, Crystals, Molecules b
Drummond, Jr., serve as more advanced guides. Ful
mation available from Edmund Scientific Company, 1

Gloucester Pike, Barrington, New Jersey 08007.

0 SAFE AND DRY. A well-installed hardwood gym flo
last a lifetime if proper care is taken of it and if it is k
Excessive moisture in the floor can cause warping
results in expensive replacement costs. However, one
has solved this serious moisture problem with the u
ventilating system designed specifically to keep g
dry. Air at room temperature is pulled into an e
system of duct work under the gym floor through
inconspicuous baseboard inlets on either Side of th
The branch runs of ductwork lead from the baseboar
to a main center duct which runs the length of the g
main duct is connected to a power ventilator on the w
By constantly passing room temperature air thro
duct system, the under-the-floor area is kept free of m
and the hardwood floor is kept dry, thereby very su
ally increasing the maintenance-free life of the Ho
additional information, write to Ilg Electric Ven

Company, 2850 North Pulaski Road, Chicago.

For further information, please write directly to so’urce given and mention RECREATION Mag

140

RECR "

  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
    

_ URCE GUIDE

TO ADVERTISERS

Page

- _.--......__..._--........- _.._._ 150
Press ---.....__---_..-.._..-._.-.__--.__ 121
r Athletic Equipment... ...... -.._ 97

103
135
149
146
--___.--..._.._ Inside Back Cover
........................... __._..__ 142
Playthings __._.._._.. ....... .. 121
ymww ........... _- 149
u Badge .................... -- 147

--...._ 104
.... Inside Front Cover

locker ____....-_--,- -__...- ..-__ -..-
Shullleboard ...._.._ ......... --_...

ublishing --_..._-..........--..--....__

 

-.—..- _—.... --- - -—————-—-—... “I-

S...............

I -. tric_...............
. s _.____...__.__.____.._.___._____.._____ 145
u Bradsby ._ .............. -- 146
Chemical ...._.__...___.______..e____ 100
‘ creation Month Back Cover
. ' . Beautiful __..... _______ _-__ 134
._.. ................ .._.. 104
.___.._.__. 100
erge _ ........ .__- Inside Front Cover
aipment ....... ..._._.. 105-106
Company _...___........___.._---._.---._.. 143
Studio .__..__...__ 104
143
135
104
134
139

 

ty Tent _ ..-___...-_

-------——-——H

d Summer Notebook _... ......... --
rading _________.

——-----—- —-.m

._.._.___._ 134

  new mark of $43,500,000 in sales was

reached at the National Motor Boat Show in New York City when it ended
its 55th successful course at the New York Coliseum on January 24. Although
beset by blizzards on both weekends, the ten-day show had a record at-
tendance of 340,000. The show also had a record number of boats on dis-
play, of which 143 were cabin or open sailboats. This was the largest
display of sailboats ever. A seafaring reporter from RECREATION Magazine
found the following craft and marine items of particular interest.

SAILBOATS

A molded African mahogony, 6-ply, no-seams
slaop, The Celebrity, 19'9" in length, is sleek,
beautiful, safe and roomy, easy to handle, and
perfarmance proven. One of the few small sail-
baats with an afterdeck, its rudder draws no
mare than the lowest part of the hull. Many ac-
cessories are included that are usually additional
cost items.

The Robin, a 5-ply mahogany, is four boats in
ane, 0 '10'10” sloap or catboat depending on
where you step the mast. You use the same spars,
rigging and sails. As a catboat she would serve
as a trainer for young children or beginners. Can
be rawed or pawered with a small outboard
matar and easily cartapped, even on a compact
car. The Robin alsa comes as o kit and all you
need to complete her is a hammer, screwdriver,
hand drill, small saw and plane, sandpaper,
paint, brushes, and patience. Far brochures on
both, write to the P. Evanson Boat Company, 4110
Freeland Avenue, Philadelphia 28.

FIBERGLASS SAILBOATS

Whether you are looking for a 7'11” sailing and
rowing dingy, 0 10'4" sailboard, a 12', 15', or
19' sloop, or a 23' family boat, you can find it
listed and colarfully illustrated in a fifteen-page
booklet available from the Nickols Orienta Yacht
Yard, 500 Rushmore Avenue, Mamaroneck, New
Yark (Attention: Barbara Engel). This company
will put you in touch with your local or nearest
dealer handling any of the O'Day or Pearson

Boats.

CANOES

Canaes made of aluminum are lighter than
wood, canvas composition, or fiberglass. Being
nonabsorbent, they do not increase in weight
when wet. In an illustrated brochure, Famous
Grummon Aluminum Canoes, you will find
canoes from thirteen to nineteen feet, double end
or square stern, and complete listings of sail
rigging and accessories to go with them. Write
to Fred L Hall, Grumman Boats, General Sales
Office, Marathon, New York.

The traditional wood and convos canoe, nearest
thing to the light Indian birchbark—though not
in evidence at the show—is still supplied by
Old Town Canoe Company, and with up-to-date
improvements in construction. Easy to carry on
a portage, it is dear to the hearts of seasoned
campers, sportsmen, fire wordens, ond foresters.
It is widely used for cruises into the wilderness
and by canoe campers who follow the ways of
the redmen. Indians helped fashion the orig-
inal Old Town, and there are still Indians on the
staff of the Old Town Canoe Company, Old
Town, Maine 04468. Write for Old Town's
new, colorful 1965 catalogue of canoes, extras,
and equipment.

SAILMAKERS

Jib talk. Sails to fit any boat, any class. Send for
catalogue to Charles Ulmer, 175 City Island Ave-
nue, Bronx 64, New York. Also ask for leaflet on
Stay Afloat, their new comfortable, lightweight
safety vest.

ACCESSORIES AND GEAR

Whether your weather eye is looking for
anchors, compasses, horns, weather watchers,
amplifiers, et cetera all can be faund in the cata-
logue from Danforth/White, Portland, Maine.

Unusual and nautical. If you seek decoratiVe
boating items and gifts, such as shoe dryers,
flaating spotlights, partable showers, aluminum
6-in-1 paddles (air pump-boathook-distress sig-
nal-liquid transfer-bilge pumpl), nautical Christ-
mas cards, wrapping paper, iewelry, china,
iackets, gloves, belts, blankets, place mats, de-
sign fabrics, lamps, galley gadgetry, stationery,
et cetera, write for 128-page beautifully illus-
trated catalogue to The Crow's-Nest, 16 East 40th
Street, New Yark 10016. (This company also car-
ries a complete line of standard marine supplies
and equipment.)

Whatnottery? A quaint and charming booklet
has been fastidiously entitled A Catalogue of
Nautical Gadgetry and Other Whotnottery of a
Not Altogether Necessary Nature. It lists for ex-
ample, a Yacht Race Game, challenging sport
for sailing enthusiasts by simulating tactics of
the race course; a chart-like board, great for
teaching tactics; foldaway garment hooks; the
Speed Wand which accurately measures speeds
from 5 to 35 MPH (nothing to rust); a Wind Meter
which measures wind speeds from 2 to 60 MPH
(it's pocket-sized). For yaur whatnottery cata-
logue, write to Dave Atwater's Ships Store, Inc.,
32 Barton Avenue, Barringtan, Rhode Island.

BOOKS

No matter whether you are looking for books on
sailing, power boating, seamanship, mainte-
nance, design and construction, navigation,
ocean racing, or astronomy and meteoralogy—to
name a few categories—you'll find them in a
listing from the Sailing Book Service, 34 Oak
Avenue, Tuckahoe, New York 10707.

FOOTWEAR AND FOUL

WEATHER GEAR

For topside needs, write to Sperry Top-Slder,
Bax 338-A, Naugatuck, Cannecticut. This com-
pany has a Unique squeegee-slit sale canvas
oxford that holds you fast to wet surfaces.

INSTRUCTION

Are you shlpshape? For listing of small craft
classes and aquatic schools see "Things You
Should Know" on next page.

141

Things You Should Know

Continued from Page 108

 

Legislation under which the annual fee
is authorized specifies the cost of an
annual admission fee cannot exceed
seven dollars.

The 1965 Recreation/Conservation
sticker will go on sale soon and will
be valid for a period of twelve months.
The Recreation/Conservation sticker is
an annual recreation permit. It entitles
the holder and all other occupants of
a private noncommercial automobile to
enter certain designated National Park
Service areas, National Forest areas,

National Wildlife Refuges, and other

federal recreation areas where an en-
trance fee is required. The sticker may
be used for as many visits as the holder
makes to any or all of such areas. Pur-
chase of the sticker is optional. A
single-entry or weekly fee may be paid
instead. The annual permit saves
money for persons who visit such areas
more than a few times a year. The
sticker is expected to be popular with
family groups.

> THE USE AND ABUSE of water in one of
the great river basins of this country is
presented in a new and thought-provok-
ing publication from the League of
Women Voters. The Ohio River Basin

was written by members of the league in

CLASSIF

type 8.15 each
Words in be drace type 8.25 each
RATES: Minimum ad accepted

RATES: Words in re

COPY:

 

IED ADVERTISING

83.00

DEADLINES: Copy
the fifth or the month preceding data of
the issue in which ad is desired.

or clearly print—your message and the address to which you wish

must be received by

replies sen . Underline any words you want to appear in boldface type.
Send copy with remittance to:
RECREATION Classified Advertising, 8 West 8th Street, New York, New York 10011

HELP WANTED

Teachers and Profes-
sional Men and Women:
Top Maine sister-brother
camps, 42nd year Box
105R, Chestnut Hill 67,

Massachusetts.

Recreation Leader. Chal-
lenging, diversified position
for male college graduate
with degree in recreation,
physical education or re-
lated field, preferably sup-
plemented by some eXperi-
ence in public recreation
programs. Applicant se-
lected will be in charge of
a community center located
in a predominately Negro
area. Salary range: $5700-
$7032, with good fringe
benefits, Civil Service cov-
erage. Personnel Director,
1501 Oak Avenue, Evans-
ton, Illinois 60204.

Assistant Parks Superin-
tendent. Sacramento, Cali-
fornia (population 275,-
000). Salary range $767-
920. Entrance salary may
be above first step depend-
ing upon qualifications. Re-
quires college degree with
specialization in hortiCul-
ture, landscape architec-
ture, or forestry. Emphasis
is on the administration of
the street tree program.
Send college transcript and
resume of eXperience to:

Rodney McWilliam, Per-
sonnel OHicer, Room 303,

City Hall, 9th and Eye
Streets, Sacramento, Cali—
fornia.

Therapists for California

State Hospitals. Oppor-
tunities to plan and con-
duct individual patient

recreation as well as spe-

cial group activities; mod—
ern equipment and facili-
ties. Positions open to col-
lege graduates with major
in recreation or recreation
therapy including super-
vised field work. Salary
range: 3486 to $590 a
month. Promotional op-
portunities, attractive em-
ployee benefits. Write:
Medical Personnel Serv-
ices, California State Per-
sonnel Board, 801 Capitol
Mall, Sacramento, CalifOr-
nia 95814.

Recreation Worker. Resi-
dential center for 92 edu-
cable, orthopedically handi-
capped children aged 5-20.
Opportunity to plan, design
and lead varied activities in
growing recreational pro-
gram under professional
guidance. Move to new,
staff-planned building in
Chicago Medical Center
scheduled for late summer.
June opening for college
graduate with major in rec-
reation or allied field. Sal-
ary range $440-$595 month.
Write Richard Eddy, Su-
perintendent, Illinois Chil-
dren’s Hospital-School,
2551 North Clark Street,
Chicago, Illinois 60614.

Program Director, male.
Rapidly eXpanding pro-
gram in city of 31,000.
Recently passed bond issue
for $750,000 Community
Center. Qualifications: De-
gree and three years experi-
ence in supervision of city-
wide recreation program
preferred. Equivalent ex-
perience for education may
be substituted on a year for
year basis. Salary $6,000.
Apply to Parmelia Dunn,

Director of Recreation,
Kirkwood City Hall, Kirk-

wood, Missouri.

Lifeguard in Washington
State’s beautiful parks from
June 12-Labor Day. Valid
Water Safety Instructor or
National Aquatic School
Certificate and American

Red Cross Standard First
Aid Certificate. $289 &
$315/M. Apply immedi-
ately Washington State
Parks and Recreation Com-
mission, 522 S. Franklin,

Olympia, Washington.
POSITIONS WANTED

Resourceful, mature,
male college student, de-
sires position with summer
camp, golf club, baseball,
bowling 01' other challeng-
ing position. Roger Nor-
man, Box 211, Collegedale,
Tennessee.

Recreation Major. Gradu-
ating 3/65, M.S.U. Age 32.
Three years Scoutmaster-
Community recreation ex-
perience. Albert Sickles,
F owlerville, Michigan.

Swimming Pool Man-
ager, eXperienced in large
pool operation, university
graduate in business ad-
ministration, Red Cross cer-
tified water safey and life»
saving instructor, 30 years
old. Jerry Alexander, Box
Ml, Recreation Magazine.

Summer Position. Ad-
ministrator and director,
experienced in youth, adult,
and senior citizen programs.
Columbia University Grad-
uate. Major in recreation.
Interested in college, com-
munity, or resort recrea-
tion. Box W56, Recreation
Magazine.

The publisher assumes no responsibility for services or items adoertlgd here.

142

  
     
   
 
  
  
    
    
   
  
 
  
  
   
    
 
   
  
 
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
 
   
 
   
  
  
   
   
  
 
 
   

six of the basin states and fin
part by contributions from lar
tries in the area.
This booklet will be of in '
recreation and park administrat
cialists, students, and the in
number of laymen who are b i
to realize the extent of water I 'l
and that something must be do
it. Recreators and planners will
preciate this review of the b
proach to the problem, with
working together to solve it. R 
RECREATION Magazine will wan 
pare this with the article about .
ware River Basin project which
i‘ied in the June 1962 issue.
Basin has had a long history
and drought, as well as the us
lems of pollution, and the inf
contained in this analysis co
serve as a guide to other riv
studies. The Ohio River Basin
ordered from the New York L
Women Voters, 131 East 23rd
New York City 10010, for 0.

postage per copy.

} To HELP FILL the ever-incre
mand for trained water-safety
tors at camps, for recreation a
departments, among youth 0
tions, schools and other gro
American Red Cross will hold :
aquatic schools at strategic 1
throughout the country this
summer. Most of these ten-da
schools are conducted in June
enrollees an opportunity to take I
before starting summer work. '
schools also are held in the late '
for persons who wish to enroll f u
ing before returning to teach in
or in courses organized by Re
chapters. These sessions are ope
and women eighteen years or o
are better than average swimm
medically approved as physical]

At five Red Cross Small Craft
instructor training will be off
boating, canoeing, and sailing. x
small-craft instructor training
be available at eight of the eight
Cross Aquatic Schools. Applica
be over eighteen years of age.
lifesaving or equivalent swimmi
ity is also required of enrollee

Fees for board, lodging, te.
other materials at the ten day
range from $55 to $70. Additi
formation and application form
obtained from local Red Cross ~
or from area offices listed below:

Eastern Area: 615 Saint Asaph
Alexandria, Virginia 22314.
Southern Area: 1955 Monroe

N.E., Atlanta, Georgia 31324.
Midwestern Area: 4050 Linde

vard, St. Louis 63108.
Western Area: 1550 Sutter Str

Francisco 94101.

i

__

ERN IN G UPKEEP

 

lIAT A CITIZENS COMMITTEE CAN DO

1ual survey of cleanli-
tary conditions in New
ed almost eight thou-
thousand blocks with-
:oroughs. The findings,

.6 1963-64 Annual Re-
:ns Committee to Keep

iness of the city’s side-
ie measurement of a
81 percent, as com-
percent the previous
ed fair increased from
percent. Dirty blocks
' percent to 4 percent—-

tins were maintained.
tinued reduction in the
I litter to be found on
:ontinued improvement
isposal. Both are high-
rt measuring sanitary

in dirty blocks was an
evement and is the re-
clean Up certain areas
ous year’s survey had
)ckets of dirt.

)f light litter continues.
)f litter that belongs in
5. Its presence or ab-
ermines whether or not
fair, or clean. Careless
improper and inade-
nweeping by storekeep-
' owners share respon-
)pearance of such litter
:walks and streets.
: still persists. Chang-
nd neighborhoods pre-
tinuing problems. The
:as have been improved
evement—but the real
I such deterioration in
d to attack those areas
which are now trend-

vey showed New York
56 percent clean. To-
nt clean.

is a measure of the ef-
ine years of work by
nmittee to Keep New
1. It has been accom-
a broad program of

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

mass education and of community ef-
fort at the grassroots. The goal has been
to enlist the voluntary cooperation of
citizens throughout the city’s boroughs
in helping the department of sanitation
keep the city clean. The committee re-
ports:

“We have had our ups and downs, of
course. A year ago—after eight years
of progress—our annual survey showed
the over-all cleanliness of the city down
from 85 percent to 78 percent. With
a World’s Fair on our doorstep, this
was disheartening. Less dedicated and
courageous volunteers might well have
conceded defeat.

“Instead, the report was accepted as
a challenge~——a test of sincerity of pur-
pose. It stimulated the most intensive
campaign in years. A complete new
advertising approach was developed.
Community activities were stepped up.
The school program was reviewed ano
revitalized. On its part, the department
of sanitation went to work in areas
which the survey had pinpointed as
dirtiest. Increased collections were in-
troduced. Enforcement was strength-
ened. As a result, the tide was turned.
Almost half the lost ground has been
regained.

“The city is not yet back to its former
85 percent clean level. It is not enough
to make dirty areas less dirty. Clean
areas must be maintained and those
rated fair must be upgraded. However,
if the momentum, the interest, the fi-
nancial support of the past year can he
sustained, we can look forward to con-
tinued progress.

“Our aim is to try to make each New
Yorker recognize that a clean city is his
personal responsibility. Through per-
suasion—and persistenekwe hope to
make him realize that the “housekeep-
ing” of his city is just as important as
the housekeeping of his home or busi-
ness. And just as much to his advan-
tage.

“Progress is bought at the price of
constant effort. After nearly a decade
of effort, we are convinced that the job
can he done.

"I* or the good of all of us. it is a jOl)
worth doing.” #

LWER CSTS

   

Machine pays for itselt In a
few months or your money
refunded. Write for details.

P|P0

 

on Table Tennis Balls

AS LOW AS 5 .19

As America's A 
largest distribu-
tor at table tennis balls (selling DIRECT to
customers) we can offer unmatched low
prices in any quantity. Quality guaran-
teed in writing to have correct bounce and

give long service.
And Earn

330-500 PROFIT

With This

Silent
Salesman

this sturdy.
tamper - prool
coin operated
machine sells
PIPO balls lot
We each. In'
addition to the
sales prolil.
you eliminate
costly check-
ing in and out
oi balls.

882 Massachusetts Ave.
Indianapolis. Indiana

   

   

SAVE $5.00

OFF FACTORY DIRECT PRICE

..

on

this

022mg 

FOLDING
TALE '

Melamine
Plastic

T°P' $27.9 5

A $32.95 Value
Now Only

F.O B COLFAX

You can always save money buying direct
from Monroe . . . now save even more on
this modern lolding table. A $32.95 value  .
now only $27.95 for limited time only! Quality
features include heat-resistant. stainprool
Melamine Plastic tan linen top . . . smooth
plastic edge moulding llush with table top
. . . heavy gauge channel steel lrame . 
tubular steel leg assemblies with automatic
gravity-type locks. Popular 30" s 96" size.
Also special prices on other tables! Send
today for FREE Sale Bulletin!

Mail/60E TABLE TRUCKS!
“r” ’/2 arr!

Learn how you can
buy a Monroe Table
2 ‘ Truck tor $13.25.

‘“ I Write today lor . . .

.v ,
FREE SALE BULLETIN!

Take advantage of money-saving specials
on tables. chairs. storage trucks. parti-
tions. coat racks. etc. Send for FREE
Sale Bulletin today!

THE MONROE COMPANY

181 Church Street Colfax, Iowa

 

 

143

 

Things You Should Know

Continued from Page 108

 

Legislation under which the annual fee
is authorized specifies the cost of an
annual admission fee cannot exceed
seven dollars.

The 1965 Recreation/Conservation
sticker will go on sale soon and will
be valid for a period of twelve months.
The Recreation /Conservation sticker is
an annual recreation permit. It entitles
the holder and all other occupants of
a private noncommercial automobile to
enter certain designated National Park
Service areas, National Forest areas,

National Wildlife Refuges, and other

federal recreation areas where an en-
trance fee is required. The sticker may
be used for as many visits as the holder
makes to any or all of such areas. Pur-
chase of the sticker is optional. A
single-entry or weekly fee may be paid
instead. The annual permit saves
money for persons who visit such areas
more than a few times a year. The
sticker is expected to be popular with

family groups.

P THE USE AND ABUSE of water in one of
the great river basins of this country is
presented in a new and thought-provok-
ing publication from the League of

Women Voters. The Ohio River Basin

was written by members of the league in

CLASSIF

type 8.16 each
Words in ho dface type 3.25 each
RATES: Minimum ad accepted $3.00

RATES: Words in re

COPY: T

 

IED ADVERTISING

DEADLINES: Copy must be received by
the fifth of the month preceding data of
the issue in which ad is desired.

r clearly print—your messa e and the address to which you wish

replies sen . Underline any words you want 0 appear in boldface type.
Send copy with remittance to:
RECREATION Classified Advertising. 8 West 8th Street, New York, New York 10011.

 

HELP WANTED

Teachers and Profes-
sional Men and Women:
Top Maine sister-brother
camps, 42nd year Box
105R, Chestnut Hill 67,

Massachusetts.

Recreation Leader. Chal-
lenging, diversified position
for male college graduate
with degree in recreation,
physical education or re-
lated field, preferably sup-
plemented by some eXperi-
ence in public recreation
programs. Applicant se-
lected will be in charge of
a community center located
in a predominately Negro
area. Salary range: $5700-
37032, with good fringe
benefits, Civil Service cov-
erage. Personnel Director,

1501 Oak Avenue, Evans-
ton, Illinois 60204.

Assistant Parks Superin-
tendent. Sacramento, Cali-
fornia (population 275,-
000). Salary range $767-
920. Entrance salary may
be above first step depend-
ing upon qualifications. Re-
quires collcge degree with
Specialization in horticul-
ture, landscape architec-
ture, or forestry. Emphasis
is on the administration of
the street tree program.
Send college transcript and
resume of eXperience to:
Rodney McWilliam, Per-
sonnel Officer, Room 303,
City Hall, 9th and Eye
Streets, Sacramento, Cali-
fornia.

Therapists for California
State HOSpitals. Oppor-
tunities to plan and con-
duct individual patient
recreation as well as spe-

cial group activities; mod-
ern equipment and facili-
ties. Positions open to col-
lege graduates with major
in recreation or recreation
therapy including super-
vised field work. Salary
range: 3486 to $590 a
month. Promotional 0p-
portunities, attractive em-
ployee benefits. Write:
Medical Personnel Serv-
ices, California State Per-
sonnel Board, 801 Capitol

Mall, Sacramento, Califor-
nia 95814.

Recreation Worker. Resi-
dential center for 92 edu~
cable, orthopedically handi-
capped children aged 5-20.
Opportunity to plan, design
and lead varied activities in
growing recreational pro-
gram under professional
guidance. Move to new,
staff-planned building in
Chicago Medical Center
scheduled for late summer.
June opening for college
graduate with major in rec-
reation or allied field. Sal-
ary range $440-$595 month.
Write Richard Eddy, Su-
perintendent, Illinois Chil-
dren’s Hospital-School,
2551 North Clark Street,
Chicago, Illinois 60614.

Program Director, male.
Rapidly expanding pro-
gram in city of 31,000.
Recently passed bond issue
for $750,000 Community
Center. Qualifications: De-
gree and three years experi-
ence in supervision of city-
wide recreation program
preferred. Equivalent ex-
perience for education may
be substituted on a year for

year basis. Salary 36,000.
Apply to Parmelia Dunn,

Director of Recreation,
Kirkwood City Hall, Kirk-

wood, Missouri.

Lifeguard in Washington
State’s beautiful parks from
June 12-Labor Day. Valid
Water Safety InstructOr or
National Aquatic School
Certificate and American

Red Cross Standard First
Aid Certificate. $289 &
$315/M. Apply immedi-
ately Washington State
Parks and Recreation Com-
mission, 522 S. Franklin,
Olympia, Washington.

POSITIONS WANTED

Resourceful, mature,
male college student, de-
sires position with summer
camp, golf club, baseball,
bowling or other challeng-
ing position. Roger Nor-
man, Box 211, Collegedale,

Tennessee.
Recreation Major. Gradu-

ating 3/65, M.S.U. Age 32.
Three years Scoutmaster-
Community recreation ex-
perience. Albert Sickles,
Fowlerville, Michigan.

Swimming Pool Man-
ager, experienced in large
pool operation, university
graduate in business ad-
ministration, Red Cross cer-
tified water safey and life-
saving instructor, 30 years
old. Jerry Alexander, Box
Ml, Recreation Magazine.

Summer Position. Ad-
ministrator and director,
experienced in youth, adult,
and senior citizen programs.
Columbia University Crad-
uate. Major in recreation.
Interested in college, com-
munity, or resort recrea-
tion. Box W56, Recreation
Magazine.

The publisher assumes no responsibility for car-vices or item: advertised here.

1412

six of the basin states

part by contributions .
tries in the area. 4

This booklet will 
recreation and park ad
cialists, students, ant
number of laymen wi
to realize the extent 
and that something m;
it. Recreators and plan
preciate this review 1
proach to the probler
working together to so.
RECREATION Magazine
pare this with the articj
ware River Basin proje
ried in the June 1962
Basin has had a long
and drought, as well a
lems of pollution, and
contained in this an;
serve as a guide to 1;
studies. The Ohio Rio
ordered from the New
Women Voters, 131 I
New York City 1001!

postage per copy.

} To HELP FILL the ex:
mand for trained watt
tors at camps, for red;
departments, among-
tions, schools and 01:
American Red Cross 
aquatic schools at st}
throughout the count
summer. Most of the:
schools are conducted?
enrollees an opportunit‘
before starting summi
schools also are held in
for persons who Wish 
ing before returning to
or in courses organize
chapters. These session:
and women eighteen y:
are better than averag
medically approved as,

At five Red Cross Sm

instructor training wi
boating, canoeing, and
small-craft instructor t
be available at eight of,
Cross Aquatic Schools.
be over eighteen years
lifesaving or equivalent
ity is also required of.

Fees for board, lod
other materials at the
range from $55 to $70
formation and applicat
obtained from local Re
or from area offices list:
Eastern Area: 615 Sai

Alexandria, Virginia
Southern Area: 1955

NE, Atlanta, Georg
Midwestern Area: 405,

vard, St. Louis 6310
Western Area: 1550 

Francisco 94101. "

NCERNING UPKEEP

\VHAT A ClTlZ ENS COMMITI‘EE CAN DO

i: MNTiI annual survey of cleanli-
('55 and sanitary conditions in New
City covered almost eight thou-
of the sixty thousand blocks with-

' city’s five boroughs. The findings,
ported in the 1963-64 Annual Re-
of the Citizens Committee to Keep
' York Clean:

I erall cleanliness of the city’s side-
‘-——the prime measurement of a

   
   
   
   
 
 
  
   
 
 
   
  

It

city—was 81 percent, as com-
* l with 78 percent the previous
Blocks rated fair increased from
ircent to 15 percent. Dirty blocks
' med from 9 percent to 4 percent—
low.
'ng—term gains were maintained.
' was a continued reduction in the
nt of heavy litter to be found on
lks and a continued improvement
od refuse disposal. Both are high-

t‘

nifieant in measuring sanitary

tions.

e reduction in dirty blocks was an

nding achievement and is the re-

f a drive to clean up certain areas
1 the previous year’s survey had

a ted were pockets of dirt.

i
‘
l

   
  
 
  
  
  
     
  
 
  
   
  
  
  
  

e problem of light litter continues.
is the type of litter that belongs in
'tter baskets. Its presence or ab-
largely determines whether or not
'1: is dirty, fair, or clean. Careless
rians and improper and inade-
' sidewalk sweeping by storekeep-
l d property owners share respon-
1 y for the appearance of such litter
‘- city’s sidewalks and streets.
e challenge still persists. Chang-
o-nditions and neighborhoods pre-
iew and continuing problems. The
. hatrlirty areas have been improved
uajor achievement—but the real
' l to prevent such deterioration in
l l st place and to attack those areas

clean. but which are now trend-
wnward.

1 l_‘)55. a survey showed New York
L o be only 56 percent clean. To-
ll : is 81 percentclean.

i ' difference is a measure of the ef-
eness of nine years of work by
itizens Committee to Keep New
‘ I City Clean. it has been accom-
[) .- through a broad program of

J

t

l

  

n. 1965

mass education and of community cf-
fort at the grassroots. The goal has been
to enlist the voluntary cooperation of
citizens throughout the city’s boroughs
in helping the department of sanitation
keep the city clean. The committee re-
ports:

“We have had our ups and downs, of
course. A year ago—after eight years
of progress—our annual survey showed
the over-all cleanliness of the city down
from 85 percent to 78 percent. With
a World’s Fair on our doorstep, this
was disheartening. Less dedicated and
courageous volunteers might well have
conceded defeat.

“Instead, the report was accepted as
a challenge—a test of sincerity of pur-
pose. It stimulated the most intensive
campaign in years. A complete new
advertising approach was developed.
Community activities were stepped up.
The school program was reviewed ano
revitalized. On its part, the department
of sanitation went to work in areas
which the survey had pinpointed as
dirtiest. Increased collections were in-
troduced. Enforcement was strength-
ened. As a result, the tide was turned.
Almost half the lost ground has been
regained.

“The city is not yet back to its former
85 percent clean level. It is not enough
to make dirty areas less dirty. Clean
areas must be maintained and those
rated fair must be upgraded. However,
if the momentum, the interest, the fi-
nancial support of the past year can be
sustained, we can look forward to con-
tinued progress.

“Our aim is to try to make each New
Yorker recognize that a clean city is his
personal responsibility. Through per-
suasion—and persistence—we hope to
make him realize that the “housekeep-
ing” of his city is just as important as
the housekeeping of his home or busi-
ness. And just as much to his advan-
tage.

“Progress is bought at the price of
constant effort. After nearly a decade
of effort, we are convinced that the job
can be done.

"her the good of all of us, it is a Jon
worth doing.” #

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

LWER CSTS

on Table Tennis Balls

AS LOW AS 5 ~19
As America's 8 A 

largest distribu-

tor of table tennis hails (selling DIRECT to
customers) we can otter unmatched low
prices in any quantity. Quality guaran-
teed in writing to have correct bounce and
give long service.

And Earn

33o-% PROFIT

With This

Silent
Salesman

this slrdy.
tamper - proot
coin operated
machine soils
PIPO balls for
We each. in
addition to the
sales prolil.
you eliminate
costly check-
log to and out
oi balls.

Machine pays for itsell in a
few months or your money
refunded. Write for details.

P|P0

882 Massachusetts Ave.
Indianapolis. Indiana

SAVE $5.00

on: FACTORY DIRECT PRICE" -

FOLDING
TABLE

Melamine
Plastic

Top!

A $32.95 Value
Now Only

$27.95

F.O B. COLFAX

You can always save money buying direct
from Monroe . . . now save even more on
this modern folding table. A $32.95 value  .
now only $27.95 for limited time only! Quality
features include heat-resistant. stainprooi
Melamine Plastic tan linen top . . . smooth
plastic edge moulding flush with table top
. . . heavy gauge channel steel lrame . 
tubular steel leg assemblies with automatic
ravity-type locks. Popular 30" x 96" size.
hlso special prices on other tables! Send
today for FREE Sale Bulletin!

man/gar TABLE TRUCKS!
“r '/2 0m

Learn how you can
buy 3 Monroe Table
l Truck for $13.25.

\"' l

1,. Write today for . . .
FREE SALE BULLETIN!

take advantage at money-saving specials
on tables. chairs. storage trucks. parti-
tions. coat racks. etc. Send for FREE
Sale Bulletin today!

THE MONROE COMPANY

131 Church Street Colfax, Iowa

 

143

Be My Guest

Continued from Page 115

W

times. Finally, as a token of friendship to Cochise it was
renamed Fort Apache. Visitors can now watch Apache chil-
dren at play on the old parade grounds. The Apaches raise
their twenty thousand head of stock on open range and cows

munch contentedly around the campsites.
A paved road goes to the reservation’s most scenic area.

the thousand-year old Kanishba Indian ruins. Here the visi-
tor views desert land instead of forest. In July the desert
is in full bloom with red, yellow, and white blossoms on
the cactus plants. Tall mountains border the desert and
mesa land. Wide ravines almost as deep as the mountains
are snaked through the area.

The Kanishba Indian ruins consist of two stone “apart-
ment” houses of the Pueblo period, capable of housing two
thousand people. They were abandoned for mysterious rea-
sons about 1350 AD (probably because water sources were
exhausted). The buildings have remained in comparatively
good condition. The ruins are a source of archeological
Wealth in pottery, beads, and implements of the PuebIo
period.

For photographers and students of history, the Indians
maintain Cebecue. This settlement has not changed with
time. Visitors are also treated to fairs, rodeos, ceremonials,

and other Indian activities. ‘
Visitors can also see the salt caves which the Apaches

  
   
 
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
 
  
  
  
  

mined long before Francisco Coronado came upon ths.
during his famous expedition from Mexico to New
Texas, Oklahoma, and Kansas. During this expeditict
nado’s men were the first to see the Grand Canyon
Colorado River. The Apaches have markers that kit:
part of our history alive, but at all times they haq
careful to preserve the primitive flavor of the reserve

This recreation enterprise is the White Mountain A?
latest business venture. Most of the profit from the
prise will be put back into more development. To a
year-round tourist business, the Apache recreatio.
prise is planning a winter-sports lodge and a ski run;
is already an all-weather road. The tribal council ho'p
the ultimate outcome of the tourist business will bl
jobs for the Indians, opportunities for college, and};

advancement of the Apache Indians.
The Cherokee Indians in North Carolina, with Ii.

support from the Bureau of Indian affairs, have de.
an Indian museum, 17th century Indian village, 
outdoor theater that performs a historical pagean
These Hills, by Paul Green, nightly during the sum
beauty of the outdoor theater alone is worth the
admission.

These and other Indian reservations make about
000 acres of U. S. territory that can help meet thel
recreation needs of our growing nation. At the same tl:
Indians are creating jobs for themselves and assu .
future Indian generations the preservation of their

lands and their heritage. #

 

WEATHER SIGNS

in the
BACK COUNTRY

 

EFORE THE DAYS of weather forecasts and storm warn-
B ings, when a farmer’s very survival depended upon his
knowledge of valid weather signs, many of his conclusions
were based upon animal behaviOr and nature warnings. In
the back country, these were known even to small children.

When bats fly low, it will rain soon. Insects on which the
bats feed are forced down by the low air pressure before a
rain, and the bats must fly low to catch them.

Red morning, take warning. This bit of weather wisdom
is very old, and can be found in Matthew 16:3: “And in the
morning, it will be foul weather today: for the sky is red and
lowering.”

When the smells from creeks, ponds, and swamps become
stronger, there is stormy weather ahead. If the air pressure is
high, these smells are held captive. When a low approaches,
they are released.

When bees stay near the hive, rain is coming soon. It is

 

Reprinted with permission from Out of the Woods by Esther
Kellner (New York: Doubleday, 1964).

144

axiomatic in back-country Indiana that a bee is never.

 
  
 
  
    
    
    
 
  
   
 
 

in a shower.

When spiders desert their webs, it will rain. T
of insects seeking shelter is a very old portent of
showers.

When the grass is dry on a summer night, look I
Dew is favored by cloudless skies and fair weather t

Spider webs shining early in the morning mean a
ahead. Spider webs in the grass are seldom noticed u:
dew is on them, and dew means good weather, fair s
wind.

Smoke falling instead of rising is a sign of bad 1
Smoke is carried toward the ground by the low air 1
before a rain or storm.

All sorts of creatures and most people are ill-at-eas
a storm, with a strange restlessness they cannot expla
is due, scientists tell us, to the many depressing and
ing eHects, both mental and physical, caused by
pressure.

Such restlessness, noted by weather watchers for
many years, is probably responsible for such observat
Before a storm, pigs squeal more than usual . . . fro
more rapidly . . . goats bleat a great deal . . . duck
noisily . . . horses stamp, switch their tails, and blow
. cows thump th
. . dogs
. sheep huddle t

. . . donkeys scratch themselves against walls an

even when sheltered from flies . .
with their tails .
easy and keep changing positions . .

. crows caw more often .

’r. . . hreflies wink faster . . . people may seem nnnerv

Race

r. r ~ in the News

{3911' l Continued from Page 121
J ' .-
lhal ibs in Toronto. This plan is so ad-
9! i a] that today, only ten years later,
i‘ is "-fivc percent of it has already
lain implemented. While in 1954- Tor-
Jm ) had only one outdoor swimming
.1 today there are ten; artificial ice
'ea' ‘ have increased from four to fif-
l'i -; a new indoor arena and three
til '-purpose recreation centers were
will : ucted and wading pools multi-
.,v from eighteen to fifty-seven. A
iber of small neighborhood park-
’ith were established in an attempt to
re v V green space to within a quarter-
ag,‘ ‘ radius of all residential communi-
rig? and some of the larger parks, such

,, I; Park, Biverdale Park, Ehibi-
[ht Park and Allan Gardens, have

' developed to such an extent that
W rate among the finest of their

r. Bell was called upon to handle
all and heavy responsibilities in
t 'on to his parks job. The con-
-tion of Toronto’s world-renowned
. city hall was entrusted to Mr. Bell
this project seemed to be running
a lot of snags and since then pro-
” on this building has been rapid
, : steady. Mr. Bell is still being re-
." as consultant in this capacity.
,j des holding these two major posi-
H  Mr. Bell was also a member of
I l‘reasury Board (the watch-dogs of
j , i'vic budget), as well as a member
he Committee of Implementation
i-NJI‘ISible for the reorganization of
d " civic departments).
on B. Forrest, deputy commis-

t

i r. has been appointed acting com-
ioner of parks and recreation.

I 1 M. Ogden, Jr., staff assistant
7 the U. S. Department of Interior

1
i‘CCS l) rog ram

staff since June
, has been appointed assistant di-

t )l‘ of the Bureau for Planning and
rch, and A. Heaton Underliill

been appointed assistant director
l~ ate, local, and private programs.
Underhill joined the bureau in Au-
1 . . .

z 1962 as assrstant director in charge
lanning and surveys and coopera-
Services. Mr. Ogden will he re-

1 . . . .
s1ble for nattonWtde planning and

CH, 1965

surveys, water resources and special
area studies, and research and educa-
tion. Mr. Underhill will have charge
of the bureau’s technical assistance ac-
tivities and of the grants-in-aid pro-
gram to be administered under the re-
cently enacted Land and Water Con-
servation Fund Act, including the re-
view of state plans and of applications
from the states for acquisition and de-
velopment grants.

Dr. Arthur T. Wilcox of Akron,
Ohio, nationally recognized for his
achievements in the field of outdoor
recreation, joined the faculty at Colo-
rado State University as of January 1.
Director and secretary of the Metro-
politan Park District in Akron since
1960, Dr. Wilcox will be chairman of
the forest recreation program in the
university’s department of forest rec-
reation and wildlife conservation.

 

IN MEMORIAM

 

o JACK EVANS, manager of the Denver
Parks and Recreation Department, died
recently of a heart attack. Mr. Evans

 

 
 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

CRAFTSMAN SHIP
FOR QUALITY

at no extra cost:

VACUUM PRESSURE
TREATMENT

The Hanna Pro-Treatment process is
exclusive with Hanna BATRITE bats.
This special treatment binds the layers
of wood tightly together protecting the
' solid, hard-hitting surfaces of your
Hanna bat throughout its life.

Another fine example of Hanna’s crafts-
manship for quality—at no extra cost.

 

 

BAT/ill!

THE HANNA MANUFACTURING COMPANY ° ATHENS, GA.

was a former cmploye of the Demer
Public Schools where he served in a
variety of capacities, including coach-
ing, teaching, administration, and as
director of recreation. He was appoint-
ed manager of the Denver Parks and
Recreation Department in April, 1961.
0 DH. Howmn (I. DANFqu). professor
of physical education at Colorado State
College, died recently at the age of
sixty-one. He was active in state. na-
tional, and international organizations,
and was one of the nation’s foremost
teachers and authorities on volleyball.
He was an outspoken enemy of collegi-
ate sports hypocrisy. Says columnist
Harry Farrar of The Denver Post, "The
sports world has lost one of its philoso-
phers, experts, and authors, but it is
even more unfortunate that we have
lteen deprived of an articulate and cour-
ageous critic. The man who called him-
self ‘a foolish noncomformist' left a leg-
acy of wisdom for those he counseled
in the classroom. in the gym, and on
the golf course.” Among Dr. Danford’s
books are Creative Leadership in Rec-
reation ( reviewed in RECREATION, Oc-
tober 1964) and Recreation in the
A merican Comm unity.

 

 
     
   
    
     
   
 
   
    
    
 
 

HANNA

 
       

145

Notes for the Administrator

Continued from PaggI

   
   
  
  
 
 
   
  
   
   

 
   
   

m

bureau fanning out on a neighborhood basis may we

I needed to stimulate interest in the face of widespreapi
interest and apathy of both organizations and potd
volunteers.

when: swam

Action programs in this field have been sporadic};
spotty, are fraught with problems but also with pr
need to be initiated no matter how modestly with re
(favorable and otherwise) analyzed and publicized. Lgl
he is lucky, today’s retiree, unaided, is trapped in a hm
pocket of financial and spiritual poverty. 50, too, mm
tomorrow’s retirees and their numbers grow. The 

is available free from CSS, 105 East 22nd Street, New l
10010.

BasebaH
SonbaHand
LHHe League Bats

Success Stories

THE California State Division of Recreation has publ'l
a 74-page guide to Investing in Parks and Rear
Centers. The book resulted from a steady flow of reque
the division from private citizens and local governmen‘
P ar tn er 8 In I cials seeking information and recommendations regal
PE  the financing and deve10pment of local recreation faci
The book features 269 examples of how California
munities and private citizens have successfully initiate
(leveIOped needed recreation facilities. Included in the
cess stories are athletic fields and sports areas, camp.
community recreation buildings, gifts and memorial p.
golf courses, greenbelts and parkways, historical monu
museums, art galleries, marinas, parks in general, par
children, public fishing access, swimming pools, beach

 
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
   
   

river parks, reservoir parks, coastal parks, zoological
dens, and arboretums.

Individual c0pies of the book may be purchased for
tax included, from the Documents Section, State Pri
Office, P.0. Box 1612, Sacramento, California 95814.
plimentary copies have been provided to park and recr
administrators throughout the state, and to state and fe

agencies directly concerned.

. h
Bobby. Nichols Wilmer PGA g _
and World Golf Tournament ' 

 

WV

CEDCO

BREATIVE ART and CRAFT MATERIALS

MANUFACTURERS AND DISTRIBUTORS OF

EDUCATIONAL - RECREATIONAL SUPPLIES
AND EQUIPMENT

SCHOOL & CAMP CREATIVE CRAFTS
OVER 1000 NEW CRAFT IDEAS

Ask about the Fantastic Squiggle-Jig!

HILLERICH 3; BRADSBY CO. 195 Mineola Boulevard, Mineola, New Yor

LOUI'SWWe'  Dept. R_5 Send for our Special Recreation Catalog
W e

W}

4, I
a; GRAND SLAMi

 

mi "mum

MWMW

Also Bobby Nichols Louisville

 

 

146 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

' T

 

tr international holiday exchange
‘- ndicapped persons has been set
" FIMITIC (Federation Interna-
des Mutiles et Invalides du Tra-
v (Ies Invalides Civils) . From An-
24-September 7, 1964, fourteen
‘apped persons from Switzerland,
ia, and Denmark spent their va-
Q in the Johannisburg recreation
in Bad Codesberg, belonging to
yerman Association of Disabled,
ichsbund.

man, Danish, and Austrian han-
d were guests of the Swiss As-
ion of Disabled from September
at the Blumenbergbad recreation
‘ ‘ situated high above Thuner Lake.
welcome, an entertainment with
° and singing was arranged for
first evening. From August 30-
' . nber l2, Austrian, German, Swiss,
Swedish handicapped were the
of the Egmont recreation home
utland, Denmark. Egmont is a
school for handicapped and the
0] remains empty in the summer.

I then used as a holiday and recre-
iliome.

   
   
 
  
   
   
   
  
   
  
  
   
   
    
   
    
 
 
   
    
 
   
   
  
 
   
   
   
  
   
  

i I

a!

I

l nliana children suffering from var-
‘ emotional disorders benefitted
'1 a new camp program last sum-
. ‘ thanks to a special grant provided
the state division of the Na-
I Association for Mental Health
NH). The division presented 34,-
to Englishton Park, an estate op-
l (I by the United Presbyterian
i 19h, to make possible a two-month
9 experience for disturbed chil-
‘ Professional leaders in charge
, program state that the majority
6 children who attended the camp
‘ (1 general improvement in their
red adjustment at home, in the
i'borhood, and in school.

be great value of sport fishing as
rapy for mental or handicapped
its at hospitals and health centers
ider recognized and utilized by
cal authorities. It has long re-
I the fact, recently given public
(lesion by the American Medical
, iation, that fishing is a healthy
«on-relaxer. A number of states a]-
y make special concessions from

I
b

i

THOMPSON is director of the Na-
! Recreation Association’s Con-
ig Service on Recreation [or the

, id Handicapped.

 

n, 1965

FOR THE ILL 89? HANDICAPPED

Morton Thompson, Ed.D.

licensing requirements for patients un-
der such treatment. Moreover, the US.
Fish and Wildlife Service customarin
stocks ponds on hospital grounds with
fiin for such use, as do some states.

Along this line, an item in The North
Woods Call of Roscommon, Michigan,
on August 19 stated that a new Michi-
gan law authorizes the state conserva-
tion department to issue free fishing
permits to disabled veterans who are
residents of state or federal veterans
facilities and also to groups of mental
patients under supervision of adult
leaders. The disabled veterans can fish
as individuals, but leaders of mental
patient groups must themselves have
valid resident fishing licenses.

+ Physically handicapped Norwegian
men are now being trained as garage
attendants at the State Rehabilitation
Institute in Trondheim, News of Nor-
way reports. They receive training at a
fully equipped service station built by
Norske Esso, a subsidiary of Standard
Oil of New Jersey. Students are select-
ed from the institute’s mechanical train-
ing department. The fifteen-week course
covers a variety of practical and theo-
retical subjects. The twin purpose is
to ease the shortage of skilled auto serv-
ice station personnel and to return the
handicapped to gainful employment.

In a related branch of social care,
Norway’s first course for mothers of
children afflicted with cerebral palsy
was recently held at Frambu, a recreat-
tion home near Oslo. The object of the
twelve-day stay at Frambu was to dem-
onstrate proper care of palsied children
and to brief the twenty-three partici-
pants on services and benefits provided
under Norway’s comprehensive social-
seeurity system. Between lectures and
demonstrations by experts, the mothers
went on excursion to Oslo and a boat
trip to Aarhus, Denmark, while a staff
of babysitters looked after their chil-
dren. For most of them this was the
first holiday in years.

+ Teenagers in Babylon, New York.
are being asked to help extend the so-
cial life of retarded children. Mrs. Don
B. Carlisle of Lindenhurst. junior ad-
visor of the Babylon Town auxiliary to
the Suffolk Chapter of Retarded Chil-
dren, said the teenagers would replace
college students who had volunteered as
counselors’ helpers at the day camp at
Phelps Lane Park last summer.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

      

   

AIDS T0 LIGHTEN
  Callonour

more than
FREE

40 years'
Instructional

experience
FILMS

for classes.
meetings, workshops

 
    
 
  
 

 
 

 
       
  
    
 

  

Workshop
Programs

 
    
 
 

 
 

 ’»’i} Teaching Aids
" for
 I : LEATHERCRAFT

  

and 23 other popular crafts

135 skilled instructors in 100 maior
cities ready to help youl

Write today for  

Please specify LEATHERCRAFT

“iii 

LEATHER

AMERICAN HANDICRAFTS CO.
(A Division of Tandy Corp.)

P. 0. Box 791 JV Fort Worth. Texas

  
    
       
     
     

GIVE HER A TROPHY...
ONE SHE'LL BE PROUD OF

GIVE HIM ONE, TOO!

Emblem and Badge's prices are 66%% off
list price—probably the lowest in the indus-
try. And that is only ONE reason you'll want
to give Emblem 2. Badge trophies . . . the
second, BEAUTY and PERFECTION of design.

We manufacture and have in stock. 10.001
perfect trophies for every occasion ...All
at 66%% off the list price. Write now to
Emblem 8. Badge for their 1955 catalog of
beautiful trophies ...FOR HIM AND FOR HER.

EMBLEM 8: BADGE 'i‘o‘i'

DEPT.R
859 North Main St.

Providence. R.l. 02904. DE 16444

 

147

NEW PUBLICATIONS

Day Camping, Irving M. Cowle.
Burgess Publishing Company, 426
South Sixth Street, Minneapolis 15.
Pp. 314, illustrated. $5.45.

HE AUTHOR is the owner-operator,
T with his wife, of a very successful
and well-run day camp. He has written
this as a handbook to instruct and to
encourage other individuals or couples
interested in this occupation as a life-
work. It is based upon his years of ex-
perience and is, as he notes in his fore-
word, a meticulous, detailed account of
just how he goes about the ob of oper-
ating the camp, and what methods have
worked out best.

While related primarily to private
day-camp operation, the various chap-
ters on site selection and the selection
and training of leaders will be helpful to
leaders in organization day camps. The
book’s onlv fault—if it can be called a
fault—is that it conforms almost too
closely to the author’s immediate camp
situation, which is in many ways unique.
For a prospective operator of a private
day camp, it will be a very useful book,

however. Mr. Cowle includes sample
forms he uses.

The Camp Counselor’s Book, Mary L.
Northway and Barry G. Lowes, Editors.
Burgess Publishing Company, 426
South 6th Street, Minneapolis 15, Min-
nesota. Pp. 146, Paper, $2.75.

THE superviSOr of research at the In-
stitute of Child Study in Toronto
and the president of the Ontario Camp-
ing Association asked former camp
counselors to write the various chap-
ters of this book. It is interesting to see
that every one of those former camp
counselors is now a director of some
well-known camp.

This book is one of the few really in-
teresting, very readable books written
specifically for the new camp counselor.
It has a relaxed, informal air about it.
Responsibility is not minimized but it
is not made into a big, grave, serious
matter. The writers imply, “Sure,
there’ll be problems. Just use common
sense, try to figure out what the child
really is saving through his actions—-
and enjoy him! You’re going to have
a fine time!”

The chapter on “Your Campers and
Nature” will convince any young coun-
selor that he knows lots more than he
thinks he does. “A Counselor’s Typical
Day” is a little gem. Barry Lowes suc-
ceeds in his attempt to “point out some

1 18

of the important little extra things that
make the difference between an ex-
cellent counselor and one who ust does
an adequate job.” Perhaps they’re ob-
vious, but what other book gives such
specifics as:

“If the campers tend to pair off, walk
with the loner, the one who is left out.”

“Treat bed-wetting matter-of-factly,
as an accident that could happen to
anyone?’

“Never, never, never withhold food.
Food is not a privilege, it is a right.”

“0f one thing you can be certain:
At some time during the summer, it is
going to rain.”

“Don’t be what I call a ‘pull-chain’
counselor; that is, one who hurries his
campers into bed, pulls the light out,
and disappears.”

Mary Northway’s chapter on “Under-
standing Your Campers” is worth the
price of the book and more. Any coun-
selor who reads and heeds the gentle
wisdom and advice she gives will find
the road to understanding the child is
much smoother and more pleasant.
Every chapter in this book could be
used for quoting and for praise. The
finest thing about them all is the en-
couragement that is behind the words
of every author.—V. M.

Camping Family Guide to Campsites
(revised edition). C. S. Hammond and

Company, Maplewood, New Jersey.
Pp. 383. Paper, $2.50.

THIS POCKET-SIZE GUIDE contains
state and area maps giving camping
locations across the United States in
national forests, state forests, state and
national parks and monuments, reser-
voir areas, city parks, and so on. Sites
are pinpointed, routes numbered, ap-
proaches described.

Information about each is given in
a brief text, the recreation areas of each
state described, with tips given on canoe
and pack trips. Handy to use, complete
in coverage, this should be helpful in
planningr a successful and carefree vaca-

tion for yourself, your family or group
in the coming year.

Science Experiments with Sound,

Harry Sootin. Norton and Company,
55 Fifth Avenue, New York 10003.
Pp. 95. $2.95.

WITH THIS publication, the author
successfully brings the science of
sound within the expanding scope of
science for recreation programs. Ex-
periments are graphicall presented for
older boys and girls efplecially, as well

    
   
    
   
  
    
  
   
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
  

as for others who are just gettin
ed. Do you want to know how a
an “echo,” how pitch and qua
sound are produced, the how an
of many other aspects of sound
answers are simply demonstrate
terials required for experimen
slight and inexpensive. Moreov
periments may be easily related
music program as well as scien
reation program.

Recreation for the Mentally R
ed. Attendant Training Proiect, '

ern Regional Education Board
Sixth Street, N.W., Atlanta, G

30312. Pp. 200. $1.50.

This well-written and illu
handbook was developed as part
“Attendant Training Project,”
ported by research grant MH-6 I
the National Institute of ‘
Health. ,,

It focuses upon recreation act
which can be carried out by att
personnel in residential faciliti
the mentally retarded. It should
valuable to leaders and teachers
ing with the retarded in day-car
ters, schools, camps, and social

Every attempt was made to ke
material simple and practical.
handbook includes chapters on
recreation” for the retarded, th
of the attendant in providing r
tion, selecting activities to fit t
tarded, fundamental rules in co
ing the program, and lists of act
such as active games, musi
rhythms, quiet and table games
and crafts, and homemade gam
equipment. A number of expe
college recreation, institutional a
istration and activities for the re
contributed to the handbook.—
Thompson, Ed.D., National Recr
Association Consulting Service 0
reation for the Ill and Handicap}

ERRATA

o ERRATA. with apologies: Th
view of Dr. Lynn Rodney’s
book, Administration of Public
reation. on Page 49 of the Jan
issue of RECREATION, carried a
correct title and a repeated li
the first paragraph. This is ine
able we know, but we hope to be
given. This was the issue of RE
ATION that survived the pri
plant fire, and on this we rest
case—not as an excuse but a
explanation.

RECR a

   
 
  
    
 
   
 
   
  
 
  
   
 
   
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
   
  
  
 
   
 
  
    
 
   
  
  
 
 
  
    
  
 
  
   
    
  
  
    
 
  
  
 
   
   
  
  
 
   
      
 
 
  
  
 
   

 

5 AND PAMPHLETS RECEIVED

 

I.

AND OUTDOOR EDUCATION

es in Canoelng, Nigel Hunt. Sportshelf,
- ax 634, New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 119.

t

s in Climbln , Rusty Westmorland.
helf, PO. Box 6 4, New Rochelle, N. Y.
4. $4.25.

e Narth American Indian, The, Shirley
, Harper ('1 Row, 49 E. 33rd St., New
10016. Unpaged. $3.95.

a-l-can Her Bells, Phillip Glosier. E. P.
1 201 Park Ave. 5., New York 10003.
“5 $5.95.

“hare, W. W. Robinson. Word Ritchie,
Hyperion Ave., Los Angeles 27. Pp. 54.

's Wildlife, Edwin Way Teale. Viking
625 Madison Ave., New York 10022.
6. $15.00.

er‘s Gulde, Dick Smith and Frank van
k. Lane Book Co., Menlo Park, Calif.
. Paper, $1.95.

and Social Life of Honeybees, The, C. R.
nds. Dover Publ., 180 Vorick St., New
10011. Pp. 352. Paper, $2.00.

I ays at Pathfinding, Robert S. Owendorf.
Ie Co., Cameron ('7 Kelker Sts., Harris-

Po. Pp. 96. $2.95.

, Norma Stillwell. Doubleday, 277 Park
New York 10017. Pp. 194. $4.95.

the New York Area, John Bull. Harper
 E. 33rd St., New York 10016. Pp.

the World, Hans Hvoss. E. P. Dutton,
ork Ave. 5., New York 10003. Pp. 210.

a Forest, Millicent E. Selsorn. Harper and
49$2E.5033rd St., New YOrk 10016. Un-

the Hapi, Fronk Waters. Viking Press,
Oadison Ave., New York 10022. Pp. 347.

. and Maths, Robert T. Mitchell and
rt Zim. Golden Press, 850 3rd Ave., New
10022. Pp. 160. Paper, $1.00.

the Wind, Richard M. Dorson. Univ. of
o Press, 5750 Ellis Ave., Chicago 37.
3. $7.95.

'a Candor, Dick Smith and Robert Easton.
Book Co., Menlo Park, Calif. Pp. 111.

- Up-Ta-Date, Ron Harding. Spartshelf,
ox 634, New Rochelle, N. Y. Pp. 96.

Where and How, Jack and Jo' Kellv.
arnes, 11 E. 36th St., New York 10016.
3. $4.95.

Sea, The, Craig Phillips. Chilton Books,
ocust St., Philadelphia 6. Pp. 285. $6.50.

ian Directory—1964-65. National Wild-
derotion, 1412 16th St. N.W., Washing-
.C. 20036. Pp. 106. $1.00.

ing, Charles C. Rambold and John Pee-
Amer. Institute of Park Executives, Ogle-
ork, Wheeling, W. Va. Pp. 32. Paper,

ing, Irving M. Cowle. Burgess Publ.,
. 6th St., Minneapolis 55415. Pp. 313.

Duty Camper, Clinton R. Hull. Trail-R-
1 America, P.O. Box 1376, Beverly Hills,
Plans and Instructions, $3.00.

am: A Natural History at the River,
Bardoch. Harper 0 Row, 49 E. 33rd St.,
_ 0rk10016. Pp. 278. $5.95.

use and Swans, Dr. Bertel Bruun and
ydeng. Odyssey Press, 55 5th Ave., New
10003. Pp. 45. $.95.

g the Olympic Peninsula, Ruth Kirk. Univ.
sst‘tlinggston Press, Seattle 98105. Pp. 118.

9 Under the Sea, J. Gordon Cook. Abel—
human, 5 W. 57th St., New York 10019.

.acatloner Trailer, Clinton R. Hull. Trail-
b of America, P.O. Box 1376, Beverly
California. Plans and Instructions, $3.00.

at Mountains, The, Francis C. Smith.
lrn Watts, 575 Lexington Ave., New York
. Pp. 87. $2.65.

ok of The Seashore. The, Wyatt Blassin-
. Franklin Watts, 575 Lexington Ave.,
Ork 10022. Pp. 60. $2.65.

'de to Wild Flowers, Millicent Selsorn.
edoy, 277 Park Ave., New York 10017.

. $1.50.
L 1965

 

 

MEMO: to physical educators . . .

The revised edition of Dr. Victor P. Dauer’s FITNESS for
Elementary School Children through PHYSICAL EDU-
CATION is illustrated with stickmen whenever possible

—a much requested addition. The indirect approach

preferred by some women is also included in this com-

plete physical education curriculum.

To order your 60-day approval copy
send your request to Dept. 15365

 

[dz/rpm pad/is/zirzp KampaI/Iy

426 South Sixth Street

' Minneapolis, Minnesota 55415

Healthful fun for every age group!
DIMCO SHUFFLEBOARD

 

Leased FREE!

Children. young pe0ple. adults . . .
Dimco Shuttleboard tor excitement. relaxation and
wholesome exercisel Court diagram can easily be laid.
indoors or outdoors. Famous Dimco equipment. in
low-price "Sunlife" or premium-quality "Free-Glide"
lines. comes in sturdy Regulation Sets or Junior Sets
(2/3 regulation size].

everyone eniOys

FREE . . . Court layout plans. game rules. catalog of
Dimco shuffleboard sets. Write today to:

DIMCO-GRAY, 205 E. Sixth St., Dayton 2, Ohio

 

 

Stop wasting time recording inventory costs,
handing out balls and paying top prices
for low quality balls. Install this attractive,
cost-cutting TFT Table Tennis Ball Meter
NOWI

leased FREE to responsible agencies an
$10.00 deposit subiect to refund. Trouble-
free operation assured — return machine
for FREE repair. Attractive hard wood and
metal cabinet—7 1/2 x 81/; x 15 inches high.
Easy to install. Holds 120 balls—dispenses
each for 10c. Choice of 3 grades of top
quality balls. Use profit to maintain and
replace paddles, nets, etc. No risk guaran-
tee. Send for free folder: "Stop Wasting
Their Time."

T. F. TWARDZIK 8. CO.,

INCORPORATED
SHENANDOAH, PENNA. 17976

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention chruzxrton. 149

SPECIAL SALE
50% Discount on AAHPER Books

when you order 25 or more copies
of a single title

Our Offer Makes Sense ¢¢¢¢

For you—you pay so much less for
the materials you need

For us—our shelves are overflowo
ing and we need room for new books

Select from the list below

Orders received after April 30 or
orders for fewer than 25 copies will

be filled at regular prices and dis-
counts.

Single 25 or
copy more

Shooting and Hunting

Introduction to guns. range $2.00 $1.00 each
and field shaoting. setting

up ranges—all included in
this comprehensive teach-
ers guide.

Marksmanship for
Young Shooters

Guide for teaching the use $1.00 $.50 each
of the spring-type air rifle

to elementary school-age

children.

Outdoor Education
for American Youth

Reference and text for $2.50 $1.25 each
teaching teens to enjoy the
outdoors.

Your Community:
School-Community
Fitness inventory

$.75 $.37‘/2 each
Checklist to assess commu-

nity programs in health
and safety education, phys-
ical education, recreation.

(Write for other books on sale.)

American Association for Health,
Physical Education,
and Recreation

1201 16th Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20036

 

 

150

First Aid for Insects and Much More, Arthur A.

Mitchell. Harvey House, Irvingtan-on-Hudson,
N. Y. Pp. 45. $2.50.

Floral Art for America, Martha Ryan Lawry. M.
Barrows, 425 Park Ave. 5., New York 10016.
Pp. 191. $17.50.

Geese Fly High, The, Florence Page Joques. Univ.
of Minnesota, Minneapolis 14. Pp. 102. $4.50.

Gems of World Oceans, A. Gordan Melvin. Na—
turegraph Co., 8339 W. Dry Creek Rd., Healds-
burg, Calif. Pp. 96. Paper, $2.95.

Gems, Minerals, Crystals and Ores, Richard M.
Pearl. Odyssey Press, 850 3rd Ave., New York
10022. Pp. 320. $6.95.

Good Camping in Florida. Great Outdoors Publ.,
4747 28th St. N., St. Petersburg, Fla. 33714.
Pp. 80. Paper, $1.00.

Great Arc of the Wild Sheep, The, James L.
Clark. University of Oklahoma, Norman. Pp.
247. $6.95.

Great Beach, The, John Hay. Doubleday, 575
gagisan Ave., New York 10022. Pp. 131.
. 5.

Great Day in the West, Kent Ruth. Univ. of Ok-
lahoma Press, Norman. Pp. 308. $12.50.

Great Smoky Mountains, Everolades, Mammoth
Cave, Frances Waad. Foilett Publ.. 1000 W.
Washington Blvd., Chicago 7. Pp. 32. $2.50.

Guidebook to the San Bernardino Mountains of
California, A, Russ Leadabrand. Lane Books,
Menlo Park, Calif. Pp. 118. Paper, $1.50.

I Went to the Woods, Ronald Austino. Caward-
McCann, 200 MadiSOn Ave., New York 10016.
Pp. 143. $5.00.

Insect World, The, Walter Linsenmaier. Odyssey
grgss, 55 5th Ave., New York 10003. Pp. 45.
. 5.

Insects, The, Uri Lanham. Columbia Univ. Press,
2960 Broadway, New York 10027. Pp. 292.
$6.95.

Introduction to Bird Life for Bird Watchers, An,
Aretos A. Sounders. Dover Publ.. 180 Varick
St., New York 10011. Pp. 265. Paper, $1.00.

Little Wonders of Nature, Per Hafslund. Lvle
Stuart, 239 Park Ave. S., 10003. Pp. 127. $4.

Marvels and Mysteries of Our Animal World.
Reader's Digest, Pieasantville, N. Y. Pp. 320.
$12.95.

Natural History Adventures, Marian B. Corr.
Golden Press. 850 3rd Ave., New York 10022.
Pp. 105. $2.95.

Natural Geography of Plants, The, Henry A.
Gleason and Arthur Cranquist. Calumhio Univ.
Press, 2960 Broadway, New York 10027. Pp.
420. $10.00.

Natural History Adventures, Marion B. Carr.
Golden Press, 850 3rd Ave., New York 10022.
Pp. 105. $2.95.

Naturalist-Explorers. Wyatt Blassinqame. Frank—
lin Watts. 575 Lexington Ave., New York
10022. Pp. 145. $3.95.

Nature's Clues, Walter C. Fabeii. Hastings House,
$£1505 50th St., New York 10022. Pp. 119.

New Dictionarv of Birds, A, A. Lnndsborauqh
Thomson, Editor. McGraw—Hill, 330 W. 42nd
St., New York 10036. Pp. 928. $17.50.

North American Canoe Country, Calvin Rutstrum,
Macmillan Co., 60 5th Ave., New York 10011.
Pp. 216. $6.95.

Range Guide to Mines and Minerals, A, Jav Ellis
Ransom. Harper and Raw. 49 E. 33rd St.,
New York 10016. Pp. 305. $5.95.

Ranqer's Guide to Useful Plants of Eastern Wilds.
The, Deganawidoh. Christaaher Publ.. 1140
Columbus Ave., Boston 20. Pp. 142. $3.00.

Rare and Exotic Birds, Dr. Robert Cushman Mur-
phy and Arthur Sinoer. Odyssey Press, 55 5th
Ave., New York 10003. Pp. 45. $.95.

Redwood Empire Wildflower Jewels, Dorothy King
Yaung. Naturegraph Publishers. 8339 W. Dry
Creek Rd., Healdsburq, Calif. Pp. 80. $2.95.

Rocky Mountain Flowers, Frederic E. Clements
and Edith S. Clements. Hotner Publ.. 31 E.
10th St., New York 10003. Pp. 390. $7.50.

Spiders and How They Live. Eugene David. Pren-
gig-5H0”, Englewood Cliffs, N. J. Pp. 72.

Spartster. The, (vacation trailer), Clinton R.
Hull. Trail-R-Ciub of America, PO. Box 1376,
Bevegiy Hills, Calif. Plans and instructions,
$3.0 .

Starv of Ants. The, Darathv Shuttlesworth. Dau-
biedav, 277 Park Ave., New York 10017. Pp.
60. $3.25.

Tide Pools and Beaches, Elizabeth Clemons. Al-
fred A. Knopf, 501 Madison Ave., New York
10022. Pp. 78. $2.95.

Trees, Shrubs, and Woody Vines of Great Smoky
Mountains National Park, Arthur Stuoka. Univ.

of Tennessee Press, Knoxville. Pp. 186. Paper,
$2.75.

Vocation Campgrounds of the Southeast, (rev.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

ed.) Charles and Kay Huitquist.
CampgrOund Publishers, Maryvrlle, T
152. Spiralbaund, $1.50. .

Western Forest Trees, James Berthald B l
ver Publ.. 180 Varick St., New Yar
Pp. 212. Paper, $1.35. .
Wild Cots, C. B. Colby. Dueil, Sloan an :
60 E. 42nd St., New York 10017. .
$3.95. ‘

Wild Wings Over the Marshes, Lucille
liam Stratton. Golden Gate Jr. B
Carlas, Calif. Pp. 93. $3.75.

Wildflower Portraits, Eloise Reid Thamp
of Oklahoma Press, Norman, Okla.

$15.00.

Wildlife Management and Canservati
B. Trefethen. Heath, 285 Columbus ‘ l
tan 16, Mass. Pp. 120. $1.32.

Wonders of the Animal World, Vezia
Golden Press. 850 3rd Ave., New Yo
Pp. 172. $4.95.

Yellowstone National Park, The, Hira
Chittenden. Univ. of Oklahoma Press,
Pp. 208. $1.95.

Your Guide to Florida Landscape Plant
V. Wotkin. Univ. of Florida Press,
15th St., Goinesville. Pp. 137. $6.50.

PUZZLES, RIDDLES

Bennett Cerf's Book of Animal Riddles
nett Cerf's Book of Riddles. Rondo
457 Madison Ave., New York 10022.
62. $1.95 each.

Dolphin Book of Limericks, The, Daubl
Madison Ave., New York 10022. Pp.
per, $.95.

More Pasers, Philip Kopion. Harper 6 R
33rd St., New York 10016. Pp. 85. $

Nonsense Book of Nonsense. The, Joy
Editar. Random House. 457 Madison -
Yark10022. Pp. 69. $1.95.

Riddles, Riddles Everywhere, Ennis Rees.
gghggnan, 6 W. 57th St., New York.

Tell Me Another Jake, Ralph Underwood
(3' Dunlaa, 1107 Broadway, New YOr
Unpaged. $2.95.

Word Games. Mimi Funke. Doubleday. 5
s$c1n06.ve., New York 10022. Pp. 12

MAGAZINE ARTICLES

ADULT LEADERSHIP, December 1964
American Adult Education: An Appra
Definition, Jack London cnd Robert W

CAMPING MAGAZINE, January 1965
Do Campers Learn Skills Useful In
World? Dr. Orville E. Jones and Dr. Lioy
Plot Your Drainage Course and Save C
pairs, Irving Horowitz.

THE COUNTY OFFICER. Januorv 1965

A White Paper on Urban Affairs, Bernard
brand.

NATIONAL 4-H NEWS, December 1964
New 4-H Interest in Science Kits.

NEA JOURNAL, December 1964

The Magic of Poetry, Mary Chase.
Humanities Fair.

OPTIMIST MAGAZINE, January 1965
From a Taboggan Slide to a Merry-
Richord R. Stanton.
Frauds Perpetrated an Retired Citizens,
Butz.
Work and Fun for Everyone (aratorico

I. J. Warren.
The Care and Killing of Hecklers, Dr. I

SAFETY EDUCATION, January 1965
A Funny Thing Happened (freak accide
Dodds.

SATURDAY REVIEW, January 23, 1965
The New Architecture of U.S. Cities, Pe
Allan Temka, Wolf Van Eckhart, Katharine

Margaret R. Weiss.

SPORTS ILLUSTRATED, January 11, 1965
Chilly Hot-Rodding on the Ice (ice-bootin
Sport Moves Under a Big Top (darned ore

_ __ - January 25, 1965

Like Trees, Boats Should Be Wooden, Hu

Sis-Boom-Bohi for Amalgamated Sports
recreation), Bil Gilbert.

TODAY’S HEALTH, January 1965
Montana: The Big Ski Country, Kenneth

son.
Halfway House for the Mentally ill, Ha

WOMAN'S DAY, February 1965
Edward Happer’s America.
To Live by a River, Dwight Hutchisan.
Enchanting Afghans (on o pocket-size loam].
Flower Centerpieces.
Footstaals (needlework).

  
 
  
  
  
  
   
   
 
 
   
  
 

 

RECR

SAFE-i-PlllY
group games

build confidence and
strong bodies

You build youngsters' confidence and
strength when you teach them with Cosom
Safe-T-Play Group Games.

They're the original, all-Polyethylene sport
games modeled after major school and
adult sports with one important exception
. . . they are safety designed and molded
of lightweight Polyethylene by Cosom
Corporation.

Youngsters master Safe-T-Play games fast
because of their similarity to major sports,
yet immediately'lose their fear of hard bats
and balls. Even slow starters are more than
eager to take part in Safe-T-Play Group
games because they're safe and easy to
learn.

IMPORTANT SAFE-T- PLAY BENEFITS

ln-school proven. All Cosom Safe-T-Play games are
teacher and student tested for safety and learning
results - Quality made for rugged use by the
originator of Polyethylene games - Full season
range of Safe-T-Play games: Baseball, Hockey,
Football, Bowling, Lacrosse and many others - Low
cost. Just a few cents a day supplies full season
requirements - Safe-T-Play fits into existing phy.
ed. curriculum - Good indoors and out. Reduces
playing space requirements - For boys and girls,
elementary through senior high.

COSOM HOCKEY BOOK. 20 PAGES OF
RULES, OFFICIATING, LEAGUES, ETC.

fOOTBALL

FREE...Cosor-n
Brochure of
Safe-T-Play
Games.

  

COSOM CORPORATION

A subsidiary of Thermotech Industries, Inc.
6030 Wayzata Boulevard 0 Minneapolis, Minnesota

I When writing to our advertisers please. mention Racnm'rmx.
I

 

JUNE RECREATION
MONTH

SPONSORED BY

WIUNAL RECREM UN ASSOCIATION

 

