 

 

     
  
  

_. , .. I r“
v», 
, .  . "  '
"_, '. . A_  '
- “:2-  .I - ,  w." a ‘.
a» 
,, ..
z #1 ’ - ~ I .
.

Model

Genuine Persimmon Head
Rich Walnut Fin/sh

   
 

_ q:  l..? .
l A. ,   —’ F?" [V .
’2‘??? V1! I ,‘f " A _ ‘ I a” 5 “'1‘?fo , _ "1.
I, ’ :7  .  I 7' I ’ M— - n '1
" * .1 g o
 '7 I,  ~ Gena/n9 Pars/m
 :‘zf " ’ CV:

g1?“

GRAND SLAM 

-HILLERICH & BRADSBY 00., Louisville, K

 

RECREATION MAGAZINE
WINS AWARD FOR
BEST FEATURE STORY

 

N ALVA/32') w

U1: mutational Press Association of Amerim

awards this Ccnilicale for Excellence in Educational Journalism to

   

l
l
OerTIONAL
nuts
~N0CIATIDV
0F
l AIFIICA
l
I

WM}

 

l

This Certificate represents Distinguished Performance
in the 1965 Edprcss Awards Competition in

' WW

 

‘ OR THE second straight year, RECREATION Magazine

has been selected as a first-prize winner in the annual

wards Competition sponsored by the Educational Press

\ssociation of America. Last year,

dpress award for” the best news

l .
ward was given for best feature
I

RECREATION won the
story. This year the
story. The citation is

or the issue of October 1964. carrying the article “Hey-

hay in the Park” by Eric Lindsay of the Board of Parks

1nd Public Recreation in Vancouver, British Columbia.

’lr. Lindsay received a personal award certificate.

This is still another milestone for RECREATION Magazine
vhich started out in 1907 as The Playground, then in 1930

came Playground and Recreation, and in 193] shortened

ts name, but broadened its scope, as simply RECREATION.

11 January 1966, the magazine takes another giant step,

0 become PARKS AND RECREATION.

- 1065

JOSEPII I’nI-zNImneAST

 

Dorothy Donaldson. editor of RECREATION
Magazine accepts award for best feature
story of 1964 from Ben Brodinsky. presi-
dent of the Educational Press Association
of America at its annual awards luncheon.

Prize-winning feature story gives the col0rfu| history
of world-famous Stanley Park in Vancouver. B.C.

    
       

5“\\\ 43550er '
(ax? off-\mrrira ’10,,
tun-“h "In ICQH‘I "4‘ 0"
lm a‘t-P'Fmr t" : “mm-I J---«M|---1
llm (calm-our r "r ‘N .a- . l
t! inn-nun! a Hp:- \uu

' gull-n" ..m I' Ila: Ill! ‘1 .I'

Nil III\n\hl I‘Hl {I I1 RIIII\I\\II I\

  

Last year's "best news storyl" award was for
t

'Creative Tank Town. whic old how Rocky
Mount. North Carolina. turned an abandoned
water tank into an art center.

367

PIE CREATION

 

 

 

OCTOBER 1965 VOL. LVIII. N0. 8 PRICE 60c
THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

GENERAL

Recreation Magazine Wins Second Award . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 367
Story of Vancouver parks cited as “best feature story”

Recreation, Government, and the Arts . . . . . . . . . Joseph Prendergast 377
Expansion of support for cultural programs

Social Trends and Recreation Planning . . . . . . Genevieve W. Carter 378
The broad spectrum for potential research

Youth Ofiicials Association . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Stan Peters 381
How to obtain qualified o;?icials for your athletic program

Delinquency and Recreation: Fact and Fiction . . . . . Richard Kraus 382
Society must devise an ejfective team approach to unreachables

The Lively Art of Retirement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Gordon H unsaker 386

Senior citizens blaze new trails in community living

Hitting the Trail in Canada . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Melba Woefle 390
Pathways for the tenderfoot and hardy hiker

Playground in Kiwiland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . E. A. Scholer 392

Cooperative planning develops New Zealand recreation area

 

PROGRAM

The V.I.T.’s (Part III) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 394
Teenagers tackle the social problems of a mu-rneson society

Stop Those Halloween Hollows . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Darla Shaw 397
Stereotyped activities mean program dropouts

They Scare Up Pennies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 398
How to sponsor a UNICEF trick-or-treat program

A Fipple in the hiouth . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . David E. Brink 399

Seattle recorder sessions are SRO
ADMINISTRATION

 

The Open-Space Planning Process . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Arthur Davis 400
How to meet the pressures for our natural resources

Shopping for Recreation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 402
Suburban shopping plaza converts ravine into usable playspace

Recreation En Route . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Bernard J. Guagnini 403
County society initiates travel program for recreation leaders

Vote “Yes” for Parks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . John G. Parham 405
A young city passes its hrst general-obligation bond issue

Culture on a Local Level . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 407

International meeting sets guidelines for programs

DEPARTMENTS

Letters 369 ' Editorially Speaking 371
As We Go To Press 375

State and Local Developments 406
Resource Guide 409

Concerning Upkeep 415

Reporters Notebook 372
People 391

Market News 408
Rx for the Ill and Handicapped 412

New Publications 416

RECREATION is_put_3iished monthly except July and August by the National Recreation Association,
a serVice organization supported by voluntary contributions. at 8 West 81h Street. New York. New

York 10011, is _on file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers’ Guide and Book Review
Digest. Subscription $5.00 a vear. Canadian and foreign subscription rate $5.75. Re-entered as
second‘class matter April 25, 1950, at the Post Office in New York. New York. under Act of March

3. 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in Section 1103. Act of
October 3. 1917, authorized May 1, 1924. Microfilms of current issues available from University
Microfilms. 313 N. First Street. Ann Arbor, Michigan.

 

 
   
 

DUCATIQNAL The articles herein printed are Copyright. 1965 by the M,
RE 35 the expression of the writers and National Recreation Assomahon :3
S S O C 1 AT T  not a statement of policy of the '"corporéied ’3. 3’

National Recreation Association. Printed in the U.S.A ""
AMERICA

 

368

Editor in Chief
JOSEPH PRENDERGAST

Editor
DOROTHY DONALDSON

Assistant Editor
ELVIRA DELANY

Associate Editor for Pro 5
VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

Business and Advertising M
FRANK ROWE

On the Cover

In honor of United l ‘
Week, October 24-30, we I
our neighbor to the north, I
The coves and picturesque
ports of Nova Scotia are .
tioner’s delight, a haven f0
and photographers. Surrou
the sea, Canada’s easternmo
land province is a bar l
blend of history, of Gaelic
ian, and Loyalist tradition, I
land glen, pastoral valle
rugged seascape. Photo 0
Canadian National Railway

Next Month

We shall examine recreation
the USS Kitty Hawk, the

largest conventionally powe
craft carrier, as well as

event activities at an Arm
test center and an airb
“Barnyard Serenade” the I
ment of a small animal fa
rapidly urbanizing area

scribed. A look at the mos
trends in recreation cons
includes a preview of a ne\
in Hempstead, New York
dedicated in November; a ‘l
senior-citizen drop-in ce
Cedar Rapids, Iowa; and a
the park which Akron, 0

veloped from a claypit.

Photo Credits

Page 367, Jean Wolcott, :'
City; 372, Maclone Studio.
ville, Massachusetts; 382, l
of Recreation, Cleveland.
386-87, Hud Robbins, Del i
Corporation; 391, Walt Hi
Columbian, Vancouver, '
ton; 392, Wanganui Hera
ganui, New Zealand; 397,
L. Cardillo, White Plain
York; 399, The Seattle Ti

Itsc

    
    
     
  
 
  

   

t TTERS

Open Letter
.ll \Vlto Are Interested in
t'quiring and Preserving
' d for Parks and Recreation

: nd must he acqmred now for parks
recreation. We are all stating this
working with dedication to this end

' hrough bond issues, initiatives, in-

tl taxation, et cetera, et cetera.
ye competition is great from weal-

‘ -lubs. land developers, from indus-

‘ cetera. This is the American way
c and may it always stay as such!
Over, there are also other public
cies competing in a manner which

' t the American way and which is
. ir. As a result of this unfair com-
on by other public agencies, fed-
lands surplussed through General
ices Administration are more easily
nable to these other agencies than

: 'tion 203 (kt of the Federal Prop-
nd Administrative Services Act of
t as amended (40 U.S.C. 484 (Id)
(les for schools and nonprofit in-
, ions to receive these lands through
lepartment of Health, Education,
, Velfare sans fee, while under Sec-
, 3 (h) of the Surplus Property Act
1(50 U.S.C. app. 1622 (11)) the
fer for park and recreation pur-
L may only be done at fifty per-
of value.
(lay, the worthy use of our leisure
is equally as important as the uses
rth in the Act administered by the
totem of Health, Education and
re. Yet, such parks and recrea-
se is discriminated against by the
-menti0ned law.
ould commend to the attention of
of you that you investigate these
and, if you concur with the posi-
taken by the Washington State
'and Recreation Commission, that
V 'rite your Congressman urging
ederal lands surplussed for parks
ecreation purposes be given the
0 rules and regulations to live by as
surplussed for other purposes.
. mes H. ODEGAARI), Director.
shinglon Stale, I’m/rs mu! Recrea-
- Comrm'ssion. Olympia.

   
   
 
   
  
 

    
   
 
  

ng Knowledge

’rewith request you if you would
ind please you kindly to send me
magazines and a calendar for
p o my address. With use for add-
ty knowledge in knowing and
ng so far about the fact in your

    
  
  
  

nan. 1965

 

country.

Therefore, I would be very glad if
you would be able to consent my re—
quest.

Thanking you in anticipation for
your further news, I am

IlONANC SANLTSI, cfo Sukajaya 11/13,

Jakikjawa, Indonesia.

I! * Iv *

Thank you for your kindness and for
the time reply to me. I have your send-
ing the nice calendar and some maga-

Even people who
don't play games

zines on May 13, 1965. Manv of my
friends to interested them, beside I en-

joy to them too.

So that if you would like, I wanted to
have oder calendars and I’ll give them
to my friends.

Beside that I want to have some hook-
let of hoom plan book full of color. I
need them for my lesson draw. beside
my knowledge of abroad.

To much trouble I thank you very

much beforehand.
HS.

Volunteers
Sirs:

I would like to thank you for printing
my letter about International Volun-

 

 

will play new Krypto!

Here’s the perfect game for any recreational facility. It's unique, exciting-thought-
provoking and very flexible. It‘s Krypto, the new card-type math game that’s as stimulating
to a grade school grad as it is to a Ph.D. After all, nothing’s more fun than a challenge.

It can be played alone, like solitaire, in a group, or in teams.
It can be played in short games of just a few minutes, or a
whole session like bridge. But beware, it's infectious. Once
peeple get started they become “Kryptomaniacs.”

Krypto is very easy to learn. The average person can pick
it up in less than five minutes. There are also several variations

of the game that can be played. People who rarely play games.
and who may never play cards, take to Krypto. It‘s the game

that makes thinking fun.

Order the most exciting game on the market today. Just $3.95

postpaid. Quantity price list available.

 

 

If wifhln EEIZISnSSCZl’CéZSIIEEITIZ Pine Street Dept. R-l

'0 da,‘ Send me- 1T.-games of Krypto at $3.95 a set.

you'f. no, Here's my check tor._ _. List T t

d.-Ii*f.d' Please rush to:

we'll gladly Names _ _ _____
rdund Address- _ h A __ _
your mon.,° City _ A .State. Ilip.

\Vhen writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

30*)

From locker rooms
to gym floors



line of maintenance equipment.

A nearby Hillyard "Maintaineer" will outline a complete maintenance program
for you and assist in training your staff. He serves “On Your Staff— Not Your
Payroll.” Write, wire or call collect today.

W

i

HILLYARD FLOOR TREATMENTS E

The Most Widely Recommended and E.
“1%

   
   

Mental retardation afflicts...

50,000 Americans
150,000 Americans
5,500,000 Americans

Victims of mental retardation...

are completely hopeless

can sometimes be helped
can almost always be helped

The mentally retarded should be...
cared for in institutions
denied all social contacts
helped to live usefully

 

If you fail this quiz,
it might be one of the best things
that ever happened to you.

If you failed to check the last bracket under
each statement aoove. you flunked. That’s
good? Sure, because you’ve already begun
to realize that: (1) mental retardation is a
tremendous national problem, (2) its vic-
tims can be helped, and (3) they can live
and work in their own communities.

If you have come this far, it might be one
of the best things that ever happened to the
retarded, too. Because you may be the kind

of person willing to do your part in their
behalf.

Here are six things you can do now to
help prevent mental retardation and

bring new hope to those whose minds
are retarded:

I. If you expect a baby, stay under a doc-
tor's or a hospital ’3 care. Urge all expectant

370

P llJ. YARD I your recreation program.

Hillyard offers gym floor seals and finishes that stand up under a full recrea-
tional program / Dressings that protect your floors / Finish ,removers that strip
your gym floor without eXpensive sanding / Cleaners and cleaner-disinfectants
that remove soap scum and body oils...fight mold, control bacteria and kill
odors in locker and shower rooms / Long lasting waxes and floor coatings / Full

'1:

 
  
   

tary Service. We have received
inquiries and a number of vol
. . . Our summer projects got un
with volunteers from all over the
working at ten different camp
help we get in spreading infor
about this work is invaluable.
you for this needed boost. ,
JOYCE KLEIN, International
tary Service, Chicago.

  
    
   
  
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   

Outdoor Manners

Sirs:

It was such a great pleasure to I
from vacation and find . . . th
clippings re GOMA [the article
Be a ‘Wreckreator,’ ” which al
in the June issue of RECREATI
picked up by United Press and
ed in newspapers across the co
. . . What a tremendous break
And all due to your giving us .,
your fine publication. We are
grateful. I also Wish to express
sonal thanks for your excellent
of my copy, which smoothed ou
amateur’s rough spots.

Mas. MARGARET ROBARGE, P

Chairman, Good Outdoor .'

‘ Since 1907 . .
Assoctanon, Seattle.

St. Joseph. Missoari, U.S.A .
Totowa. New Jersey 0 San Jose. California

Great Minds

Sirs:

“Great minds run in the sam
nel.” When I gazed at the cover
[April] Recreation Magazine, it
slightly familiar. Enclosed is o
sion . . . Our picture covers a pa
obstacle course in which the yo
crawls through a stack of auto ti
fore going through the culvert.

Approved Treatments For Every Surface

Check one

  
   
  
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 

mothers to do so.

. . .1".-
2. Wm local schools and urge them to pro— 

yide special teachers and special classes to i    _ ., 4/
1dent1 fy and help mentally retarded children
early in their lives.

This similarity also brings I
a contest I ran in Knoxville y
A sketched picture of a bulleti
was given to each playground
He then duplicated the idea
own interpretation and I took
tures of each. The best rendi
given an award.

NATHAN L. MALLISON, Sup

ent of Recreation, Jacksonvil‘

ida.

3. Urge your community to set up work-
shops to train retardates who are capable of
employment.

4. Select jobs in your company that the
mentally retarded can fill, and hire them.

_5. Accept the mentally retarded as Amer-
ican citizens. Give them a chance to [we use-

f 111, dignified lives in your community.
.mo

6. Write for the free booklet to the 5"“ ‘b'g
President’s Committeedh Mental . '.'
Retardation,Washington, D.C. 2,0 “9"

list

'DITORIALLY

l
I

s for Ameri 'an Recreation

‘

‘ WHAT values and goals are we
mmitted in the recreation pro-

n? DO we know the why as well
how of recreation? DO common
serve as a rallying point for per-
. and public and private agencies
field? The foreword in a recently
hed booklet, Goals for American
l tion, by the Commission on
for American Recreation of the
can ASSOciation for Health, Phys.
ducation and Recreation, and
bed by that organization, says:
my years ago John Collier, a

friend and critic Of recreation.

(

i- the recreation leaders in this
y with ‘conducting pigmy pro-
, seeking pigmy results, amid
opportunities.’ Collier’s criticism
1- ssesses validity. A critical weak-
f the recreation profession is that
‘ ent its people do not have great
‘ es which they are united in want-
achieve.
is challenge of purpose has vital
tions to the individual leader
he worth of a leader will be no
than the values he
rmore, a leader without a sound

seeks.

phy is a dangerous individual,
icated by Nietsche: “He who
how but not why is not even

carry the burden of being a

he booklet’s last section, en.
"Environment for Living in a
Society.” the commission states,

reation is human activity; it
ccur in space. The environment
h the individual reacts, either
rson alone or as one in associa-
th others, is in large measure a
inant of the quality of the rec-
experience. The innate, hence

satisfying, forms of recreation
nce thrive best in the natural
ment. Meaningful recreation
nce is had in contending against
ients, calling upon one’s natural
es of strength, agility, physical
(1 mental dexterity, as well as
otional sensitivity and spiritual
ss. Such activities in ages past

.12 106:

SPEAKING

Dorothy Donaldson

were the test of man’s ability to survive.
Now they are the bases of recreation
living as expressed in hunting, fishing,
swimming, hiking, mountain climbing,
and skiing, and in cooperative group
recreation activities of many kinds. On
the level of appreciation, viewing the
landscape, counting the stars, listening
to the babble of the brook or the splash-
ing of the waves, or hearing the songs
of the birds are recreation experiences
which bring insight and inspiration to
the human soul. . . .

“Conservation of natural resources
accordingly must become one of the
vital concerns of recreation without
which it may not achieve its essential
goals. Those who would conserve the
deep-seated human value.- of recreation
must conserve also the phenomena Of

nature. . . .”

Between these two sections, the com-
mission discusses personal fulfillment,
leisure skills and interests, democratic
human relations, creative expression,

health and fitness. The 48-page booklet
is available fOr $2.00 from the Ameri-
can Association for Health, Physical
Education, and Recreation, 1201 16th
St., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20036.

* 'I it *

New Philosophy Needed

rl‘HI-Z CONSERVATION PROBLEM that we

face is largely one of human re-
sources, or social resources, and not so
much one of resources management. It
is a problem of human resolution rather
than one Of mere economics or man-
power. Somehow we must want to do
more as a people than we are doing
now. The science and technology to
raise our nation to a high sustained and
natural resources level are available to
us. So are the means. Lacking seems to
be the motivation. Here is where the
emergence of a pervasive ecological
conscience within the American people
can provide the motivating force that is
needed to get the conservation job
(lone—From Manual of Outdoor Con-
servation Education by JOSEPH J.
SIIOMON, National Audubon Society
(see also RECREATION, March 1964,

Page 101).

:_._ ‘. -.__. -J..-_‘.'......- -I---- m--n2-- D-_’._---.

 

PICTURE?

Could be . . . for leathercratt is the craft
that teaches manual dexterity, a true edu-
cational aid in the development of future
surgeons. scientists, engineers . . and
artists, too.

Put the fun and benefits of leathercraft
into your program. At no extra charge a

trained Tandy representa-
WRITE
TODAY

TA ND Y [EA mm 00.

1001 Foch St , Dept.“ Fort Worth, Texas 76107

 

w

H andweaver

Er Craftsman

 

The quarterly magazine with new
weaving ideas in each issue

Write for brochure

listing previous issues of special interest

for weaving classes in recreation praiects.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

1 yr. $5 2 yrs.  ,. $9
3yrs.   - $12

Pan-American & Foreign rates 31 a your
extra. Single copies $1.35.

Handweaver 8. Craftsman
Dept. R
246 FIFTH AVENUE NEW YORK 10001

‘27}

iREPORTER’S NOTEBOOK '

N

Fremont in Translation

A COMMUNITY must be planned for
people. That does not sound—on
the surface—like a particularly revolu-
tionary idea, but it is a concept that
may launch a revolution in community
planning, international planning experts
think. Just how far reaching will be
the effect of the advice “Plan for Peo-
ple” depends on an agency of the United
Nations, whose experts sought out the
idea from the city of Fremont, Califor-
nia. Officials from the Housing, Build-
ing and Planning Branch of the UN’s
Bureau of Social Affairs sought from
Fremont a translation of the planning
concepts being used in Fremont, espe-
cially the ideas behind the planning—
as a vital part of the city—leisure fa—
cilities such as parks, cultural facilities,
and recreation areas.

The report to the UN agency, for use
in giving planners the world over ideas
on community design, was authored by
leisure-resources administrator Leonard
McVicar, director of F remont’s Depart-
ment of Community Recreation. The
“Planning for People” concept is a rev-
olution, Mr. McVicar contends, when
compared with the traditional way com-
munities are designed. In the past, the
major concern of the planners has been
“land use,” ignoring the fact that peo-
ple, not planners, determine how a com-
'munity develops. In Fremont, the idea
of “Planning for People” has been
translated into the policy of putting
neighborhood parks adjacent to schools
and in the development of the Carriage
House Plaza in the center of Fremont’s
central business district. “People are
drawn to shopping centers and schools
are the centers of suburban living, so
why not locate leisure facilities—parks,
plazas, recreation, and cultural facili-
ties—where the people gather, in shop-
ping centers and adjacent to schools?”

Mr. McVicar asks.

Chess on a Wet Afternoon

NINE-YEAR-OLD Vincent Micheroni,
1964 Inter-Playground C h e s 5

Champion in Somerville, Massachusetts,
.bas found that the friendship of recrea-

372

tion leaders can lead one to bright hor-

izons. During February 1964, a recrea-
tion leader noticed a decided chess tal-

ent while playing with young Vinny.

The leader referred Vinny to the Som-

Vin in five games only to find Vin the
victor in three of these matches. The
special leader decided to introduce the
youngster to the Boston College Chess
Club, where after a month, he was made
an honorary member. Vincent is the
youngest member in the history of the
Boston College Chess Club, as well as
being the youngest Inter-Playground
Chess Champion.

The Boston College Chess Club natur-
ally recessed during the summer months,
which prompted the special leader to
introduce his protege to the Boston
YMCA Chess Club, “The Checkmate
Club.” Vin soon became the youngest
member of that organization also.
Through this club, he met a local pro—
fessor who agreed to sponsor Vin and
send him to the best of private schools.
Vin took a battery of IQ and aptitude
tests at Harvard University, passing
them all.

Chess, a small part of the Somerville
Recreation Commission’s program, cer-
tainly played a large part in Vincent
Micheroni’s life. The boy’s great po-
tential, discovered in chess, may bring
him success in other phases of life.
After his testing, it appears that the boy

 

Young Vincent Illic eroni demonstrates
winning chess tactics to recreation leaders.

I. for Retarded Children wishes to

ville-Camp Lejeune Midget
Bowl Game.

privilege of participating and a
cipient of this project was 0

ing. . .

  
 
  
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
   
   
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
  
   
   
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 

has great potential in any field
may choose. His sponsor l:elie\
this is one reason Why the boy
be given an opportunity to deve
potential in the best schools in t
All this developed from a che
with an alert recreation lea
stormy afternoon in February.

Prize-Winning Storytelli

HE FILM based on The Snoz

1963 Caldecott Medal wi
Ezra Keats (Viking), has been '
for showing in the annual Veni
Festival. The film, produced
ton Woods Studios in Weston, "
ticut, was animated by Mal ‘*
with music by Barry Galbrait
telling by Jane Harvey. Morto
del, president of Weston Woods
ceive a Certificate of Participat
the U. S. Government’s Golde
Award at a presentation cere
November, staged under the .
of CINE, the Committee on lnte.,
al N ontheatrical Events of the 1 o ‘
Education Association. I
l
Worthwhile Youth Proj ‘
THE YOUTH GROUP at US

Camp Lejeune, North
raised $350 to initiate and pr
camp—community midget footb
for the benefit of Onslow-Camp
Chapter for Retarded Childre
activity has created a lot of ‘
between Jacksonville, North 0
and the camp. The chapter
writes to Selwyn Orcutt, dir
the Marine Corps Base Yout
munity Activities:

“The Onslow-Camp Lejeune

t

i

l
3
l

our deepest appreciation for a
interest, time and energy you
initiating and promoting the

“Your coming to us to giv

“We hope you feel a deep ‘

d
J

R I:

in that you have helped those less
te so greatly.

' 1e proceeds from the ticket sales
» well beyond the amount we had
ed. This money will enable us
ntinue to expand the program for
Uarded in our county. . . .

,' ay God bless you.”

   
   
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
 
  
 
  

' 'y Survey
E FIRST mower undertaken un-
r the Joint Services Program of
California Park and Recreation So-
and Pacific Southwest District of
i tional Recreation and Park As-
ion was a statewide salary survey
)lic recreation and/or park agen-
‘in California. Dick C. Anthony,
or of parks and recreation in
lia. California, prepared the sur-
.ml was responsible for compiling
ata and putting it into report form.
.total of 319 questionnaires were
‘ d to public agencies, of which 213
'nded. Of those responding, 193 re-
' d full-time personnel which was
- 'ted in the survey. The survey is
led to provide basic salary data
all-time career employees in pub-
creation and/or park agencies.
1nd copies of the survey are avail-
to California Park and Recreation
.1 ([y members, and to National Rec-
' n and Park Association Associ-

'_ for $1.00 ($2.00 to all others).
- to CPRS-NRPA Joint Services
_ am, 404 Del Webb’s Center, 2220

se Street, Fresno, California.

   
  
  
    
   
   
    
 

t Plan

private pilot flight-training pro-
. pram was offered this summer by
recreation department in Bran-
Connecticut, with the New Haven
ys as cosponsor. lt is open to men
women eighteen years of age or
. living or working in Branford
' rrounding communities. Phase ]
ed two half-hours of ground school.
ding an orientation flight for each
t in a single-engine light aircraft.

   
  
   
 
 
  

 

student also received a private
; handbook consisting of FAA regu-
: IS, principles of flight, aerial navi-
‘ n, radio navigation and procedure,
ler, airport techniques, and other
'l subjects. Registration fee for

' l was 1520.

se 2 was open to those who had

BER. 1965

 

Tlm Swimming "all of Fame, now umler construction in Fort Lauderrlale, Florida,
will occupy a man-made peninsula jutting out into the lntracoastal Waterway, one
block from the Atlantic. This swimming pool camplex is a nonprofit corporation.

 

taken Phase 1 or have its equivalent in
aviation experience. It offered two one-
hour individual sessions for each stu-
dent in a single-engine light aircraft,
including complete Sanderson-private
pilot, audio—visual course, navigational
techniques in depth, manual and materi-
als for each student, and Sanderson
audio-visual system. Registration fee
for Phase 2 was $65. For further in-
formation, write to Joe Trapasso, Com-
munity House, Branford, Connecticut.

Wood Ducks Get Help

BETTER LIVING standards for wildlife

in Trinity County, California, ,in-
eluding man-made “hollow trees” for
wood duck nests, are the goal of the
group of 4-H youngsters in Weaverville.
Wood ducks are still found along the
wooded stream banks of the Trinity
wildlauds. “But there aren’t as many as
there used to be. One reason may be
the lack of hollow trees located just
right for nesting sites,” says farm ad-
visor Joe Borden of the University of
California Agricultural Extension Ser-
vice office in Trinity County.

Working closely with state fish and
game authorities, the Weaverville 4-H
Club members are placing artificial
nests. made of wood planks or old tires,
in trees at likely looking spots. In a
program which may pioneer the way
for 4-” clubs elsewhere, the Trinity
County youths are studying and helping
with other conservation practices, too.

One activity is trapping to reduce num-
bers of certain predators—skunks, for
example, which under some circum-

stances destroy large numbers of game
birds’ nests.

Summer Ideas

ma COOPERATIVE nature program of
T the Mounds View School District
and the community recreation depart—
ment ofiers eight “Tiny Animal Search-
es” for first- and second-grade boys and
girls who hike an hour and a half to
nearby parks and parking area to “dis-
eover spring”; and an equal number of
“Nature Safaris” for third- and fourth-
grade boys and girls who, among other
things, take trips to the University of
Minnesota Natural History Museum
and the Carlos Avery State Game Farm
in a search for wild North American
mammals. A nominal fee is charged
for the latter.

Art Research

8 THERE a relationship between a

child’s finger painting and the com-
plicated fresco of his adult years? Or
between the three-year-old's “e0pying”
of his parents' behavior and his acting
of a role. in a play at seventeen? These
and many other basic research problems
of the arts remain and seem likely to re-
main unanswered, according to Dr. Jack
Morrison. president of the National
Council of the Arts in Education.

“Efforts to introduce basic research

373

in the arts are sporadic, ill-supported
and of widely varying quality,” he told
a recent meeting of the American Edu-
cational Theater Association in Chicago.
"Yet because America is evolving from
a work-ethic to a leisure-ethic, such
basic research of top quality is deSper-
ater needed. Getting it under way, how-
ever, is neither quick nor easy.”

Dr. Morrison, an associate professor
of theater arts at UCLA, noted that what
little research there is in this area has
been conducted mostly 'by psychologists.
“Investigation of the difficult field of
expressive behavior,” he said, “may pro-
vide the teacher-artist with an untold
wealth of useful concepts, procedures
and information. The ‘creative act’ may
prove to be the mother lode for research
in the arts.”

Among the hopeful signs, he said, is
the recent decision of the Arts and Hu-
manities Branch of the US. Office of
Education to grant more money from its
“C00perative Research funds” to such
projects. Also, he noted the efforts of the
National Council of the Arts in Educa-
tion, a federation of professional socie-
ties in the arts, to seek SUpport for a
three-year study which will serve “to re-
assert the central place of the arts in the
life of men everywhere.”

The proposed study, Dr. Morrison

said, would “examine the status,

  
 

 
  

U.S.A.

Ii

  

9~74-

Directors

Save on picnic tables and campstoves in the
spectacular Belson "Baker's Dozen SALE!"

Order any 12 units and get the 13th unit FREE!

PLUS . . . FREE-FREIGHT ALLOWED on any or-
der of six (6) or more units anywhere in the

BUT HURRY! This offer ends OCTOBER 31, 1965
Write today for further details

BELSON MANUFACTURING CO... INC.
NORTH AURORA. ILLINOIS" 60542

strengths and weaknesses of the arts as

they are taught, learned, and practiced program where children are takd

in American educational institutions at
all levels.”

Weekend in Suburbia

HEY HAVE a good thing going in

Eastchester, New York, according
to Vincent D. Bellew, superintendent
of recreation, who writes, with tongue
in cheek, “Sunday . . . that’s my day of
rest!” Actually, Eastchester’s “chil-
dren’s weekend” (in business for about
seven years) starts on Friday after-
noons after school and extends through
Sunday afternoons. After-school cen-
ters, which include boys’ clubs, girls’
clubs, basketball centers, hobby clubs,
youth centers, parties, dances, teen cen-
ters, dad-and-son centers, boys9 judo,
and girls’ baton twirling classes, open
on Friday. Most of these continue on
Saturday morning and afternoon, but
added features expand the program,
such as the Children’s Music Workshop,
Bowling Club, indoor roller skating,
and School of Skills. Also on Saturday
afternoon, the Recreation Commission
gives free bus transportation to over
seven hundred children to a county in-
door ice-skating rink. When the com-
mission gets help from Jack Frost, one
of the local lakes is used for ice skating.
Another attraction for the little children

Write to:

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

  
     
  
      
       
     

  
    
        
  
  
   
  
   
   
 
   
   
  
   
  
 
 
   
   
  

is “Adventure on Wheels.” Thist

bus to a world of adventure, vie
historic and entertaining spots. Su-
afternoons the gyms are packed.
Sunday afternoons the activitiesI
swarming with parents. 

“Children’s Weekend” has grof
numbers participating and divers,
tion of activities through the ye
has the complete support of the
Clubs, Parent-Teacher’s Assoc'
school administrators, and the
town.

Once the local real-estate 0})
used the schools as an excellent
point to bring people into the t
Eastchester. They have now add
recreation program of “Chil '
Weekend” as an added induceme
it works.

It is just a matter of everybo
ting together, rolling up their
and going to work to make the it
better place to bring up a child. A
yes, it justifies the claim that the
tion superintendent works only
days a week!

Notes on the Cuff

o By installing permanent colored
lights on the inner walls of the mu
auditorium, Fort Lauderdale, F1
was able to eliminate the expense
up and takedown for special even
thereby cut manhours.

o A handsome new magazine '
being published bimonthly by t
tario Recreation Association. I
fine example for other state and
incial societies and associations t
Recreation in Ontario is availa
$3.00 annually from ORA, 15
Street, Toronto 1, Ontario, Cana
contents explore various facets
reation today, in Canada, the U.
abroad.

0 One thousand persons daily
part of our nation’s elderly citize
have eighteen million person
sixty-five years today, with the f
of thirty-eight million by 1980.

e Noon-hour crowds in dox
Montreal are enjoying “Instant' -
tre” . . . half-hour plays presented
intimate Theatre de la Place.

been termed an “instant” succe

RECR

 

WE GO TO PRESS

‘ , 1965

ANNOUNCING YOUR 1966 BONUS!

NEW YEAR’S BONUS will come to the subscribers of RECREATION Maga-
A zine in January 1966 when the exciting hrst issue of the new National
Recreation and Park Association magazine will be published. This will be
RECREATION Magazine plus, for it now takes .another step in growth as the

best features of the three magazines—Recreation, Parks and Recreation and
the American Recreation Journal—are combined into one expanded and

strengthened book. Symbolical of the merging of leading national organiza-
tions in the recreation and park lield, the new publication will be called PARKS
AND RECREATION. It will be dedicated to parks and recreation today and
tomorrow, not yesterday, and will look ahead to the role of the NRPA in this
new era of dynamic growth and constant change. Continue your subscription
to your favorite magazine, stand by and be “in-the-know” as you watch the new
book a-building. Be patient as we try new ideas in an effort to please you and
do not hesitate to send us suggestions of your own.

THE EDITOR

> PRELIMINARY RESULTS of the national
survey of public preferences and activi-
ties in outdoor recreation will be avail-
able in the spring of 1966, with the
formal report to follow later. The sur-
vey was conducted in September by the
U.S. Census Bureau. The information
will be used by the Bureau of Outdoor
Recreation in developing the nation’s
first long-range comprehensive outdoor
recreation plan. The data will compare
with and update the findings of the
1960-61 National Recreation Survey
conducted by the Outdoor Recreation
Resources Review Commission.

> FOR DISTINGUISHED SERVICE to world
forestry, Dr. Verne Lester Harper,
deputy chief of the U5. Forest Service
in charge of research, has just been
awarded the first Fernow International
Award by the American Forestry Asso-
ciation and the Deutscher Forstverein,
leading forestry association of the Re-
public of Germany. In North America,
Dr. Harper helped establish the North
American Forestry Commission to
bring Canada, the United States, and
Mexico more closely together in forestry
cooperation. He has led in stimulating
forest research in Latin America coun-
tries where his work is widely recog-
nized, particularly for providing train-
ing facilities in tropical forestry for
foresters of more than forty Latin-

American, Asian, and African coun-
tries.

) The attractive annual report issued
for 1964 by the Board of Park Commis-
sioners in Minneapolis should be of in-

terest to many park and recreation ad-
ministrators. Look for it at the

Minneapolis exhibit at the National
Recreation Congress, October 3 to 8.

It will be set up on the mezzanine floor
Of the Hotel Leamington.

) APPOINTMENTS: Eldon F. (Bill)
Holmes has been named chief Of the
Recreation Staff, Division of Resource
Program Management of the US. Bu-
reau of Land Management. He had
been assistant chief since June 1964.
Before coming to Washington head-
quarters, he had served two years as
BLM’s district manager in Bakerfield,
California. He replaces Eugene K.
Peterson who will transfer to the Port-

land, Oregon, Service Center to head
the Columbia Basin Studies for BLM.

° Russell E. Train, former udge of the
United States Tax Court, is the new
president of The Conservation Founda-
tion. Mr. Train is active in conserva-
tion activities here and abroad and is
also vice-president of the World Wild-
life Fund, a director of the American
Committee for International Wildlife
Protection, and president of the African

376

Wildlife Leadership Foundation. The

Conservation Foundation has moved its
headquarters from New York City to

1250 Connecticut Avenue, N.W., Wash-
ington, D.C.

THINGS YOU SHOULD KNOW

b CONSERVATION FUNDS. Apportionment
of nearly $76,000,000 to states and ter-

ritories from the Land and Water Con-
servation Fund included over $4,000,-
000 each to the states of New York and

California. The smallest amount, $4,-
273, went to American Samoa. The

total figure represents ninety percent of
the $84,377,000 appropriated from the

fund by Congress for apportionment in
the fiscal year which began July 1. Five
percent of the appropriation, $4,218,-
850, is reserved to meet unforeseen state
needs. Another five percent is expected
to be apportioned among the states early
next year on the basis of out-of-state
visitor use of their recreation areas.
The amounts must be matched by the
states and territories. The allocations
may be used to finance fifty percent of
the cost of approved projects by the
states and territories and their local
public agencies of planning, acquiring,

COMING EVENTS

Annual Conference, Public Personnel
Association, October 10-14, Hotel Schroe-
der, Milwaukee, Wisconsin. For further in-
formation, write to Kenneth 0. Warner,
Executive Director, 1313 East 60th Street,
Chicago 60637.

Annual Meeting, American Institute
of Planners, October 17-21, Sheraton-Jef-
ferson Hotel, St. Louis, Missouri. For
further information, write to Robert L.
Williams, Executive Director, 917 15th
Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20005.
Biennial National Conference, Nation-
al Association of Housing and Rede-
veIOpment Ofiicials, October 24-27,
Sheraton Hotel, Philadelphia, Pennsyl-
vania. For further information, write to
John D. Lange, Executive Director, 1413
K; Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20005.
Annual Exposition, National Safety
Council Congress, October 25-28, Con-
rad Hilton Hotel, Chicago, Illinois. For
further information, write to R. L. For-
ney, 425 North Michigan Avenue, Chicago
60611.

4th Annual Conference, American
Association of Homes for the Aging,
November 1-4, Disneyland Hotel, Anaheim,
California. Write to AAHA, 49 West 45th
Street, New York 10036.

Biennial Round Table Conference,
American Public Welfare Association,
December 1-4, Chicago. For information,
write to Mrs. Ann Porter, APWA, 1313 E.
60th Street, Chicago 60637.

Annual National Conference on Gov-
ernment, National Municipal League,
November 14-17, Chase-Park Plaza Hotel,
St. Louis, Missouri. For further informa-
tion, write to Alfred Willoughby, Execu-
tive Director, 47 East 68th Street, New
York 10021.

 
 
   
 
   
   
  
   
   
   
   
  
   
 
  
   
    
  
   
 
   
  
   
 
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
 
   
  
  
   
    
   
  
 

and developing outdoor recreatio
and facilities.

} NUMBER TWO. Paid circulat
Our Public Lands magazine,
quarterly by the Department of
terior’s Bureau of Land Mana
has passed the hundred thousan
making it the second largest
government periodical, accord
figures from the US. Gove
Printing Office. The magazine h
published continuously since Apr
and features articles and repo
multi-purpose uses of BLM-a
tered lands in eleven Western sta

Alaska. It is available for $5.60 an

) ABC MANUAL FOR NEW EDITO
those who have ordered copies,
be discouraged if this booklet is
display at the Congress. It is r
go on press and will be publis
most immediately thereafter. B
for it an any case! Printing dela,
been caused by emergencies r
from the “merger” and the for
Of the new National Recreati
Park Association. ,

> STATED A TEENAGER, “Retired
gies hate us,” while another sa
“adults generally seem to thin
agers are loathsome objects.”
and other bitter comments rank
in written answers given by stu
Charlotte High School in Punta 1
Florida, when they were invited
press their thoughts and attitud
their community and their needs.
The four-part opinion poll ask
dents to reply to these question

' What should the community
help our youth?

' Which organization is doing In
teenagers?

' What is one thing the com
could do that is most important?
° What is the attitude of adults t
teenagers?

It was the last question that b
forth evidence of a deep rese
among young people towards wh
think is a critical attitude on the
older people towards the young
eration. One student stated Sim
the attitude of adults towards tee
is “no good at all.” Another put i
specifically: “They think we are
sex maniacs, troublemakers, cra
everything else, while they proba
as much or worse than we ha
done.”

A few students admitted tha'
adults are trying to help but "
isn’t enough,” while another I
out that adults should realize th
agers “are just following the ex
adults set.”—From Saratosa

Tribune item by Josephine I
April11,1965.

REC

 

ECREATION, EDITORIAL

m: SPECTACULAR caowrn of recrea-
T tional interest and participation in
all forms of the arts and the compara-
tive lag in the growth of opportunities
for certain classes of nonprofit profes-
sional performing organizations are

conditions recognized at once in the re-

cent Rockefeller Panel Report, The Per-

forming A rts: Problems and Prospects (New York: McCraw-

Hill, 1965). Moreover, the report points out that amateur

and professional interests generally fail to complement each

other, and oftentimes conflict. One main problem is that of

strengthening the support of the public and the business and
industrial community for the nonprofit organizations.

Government at all levels is becoming more active as pa-
tron of the arts. Recent developments indicate that govern-
ment, confronted with the rising tides of cultural interests
both recreational and professional, will expand its role in
support of the arts.

The establishment of the National Council on the Art."-
recommended in the Heckscher Report to the late President
Kennedy, the cultural enrichment program provisions of the
Supplementary Education Bill, cultural programs made pos-
sible under the Economic Opportunity Act, the establishment
of twenty-two state arts councils and over a hundred local
arts councils, and other developments point to great possi-
bilities of further involvement of community recreation in
the cultural growth of this country.

The New York State Council on the Arts made a grant to
the new Music and Arts Camp sponsored by the Department
of Parks, Recreation,and Conservation in Westchester Coun-
ty, New York. The Office of Economic Opportunity has
made funds available for a creative arts program sponsored
by the Topeka, Kansas, Recreation Department.

Looking ahead with the future prospects of government
as patron of the arts in mind, and strengthened community
support from private sources as well, it would seem that
recreation should remain true, first of all, to its time-honored
and experience—tested ideal of creating Opportunities for as
many people as possible to not only enjoy the arts as pre-
sented by professional artists but to participate actively in
them as well. It has a special responsibility at this time to
improve and increase the quality and availability of recrea-
tion leadership and programs in the arts and to take advan-
tage of new resources available to do so.

President Kennedy said government cannot decree but it
can create an atmosphere for the arts. Many new resources
are now available for recreators to help create just such an
atmosphere. 

    

 

{7'

JOSEPH PRENDERGAST

Executive Vice-President and Secretary
National ReCreation and Park Association

CTOBER, 1965 377

 

 

SOCIAL TRENDS AND
RECREATION PLANNING

An analysis of this new era
in which research is needed to give
direction to recreation .

Genevieve W. Carter

0 FIELD of organized services to people has such a
N broad spectrum for potential research as recreation.
The subjects of needed research may range from
preservation of wilderness-type sites, varieties of grasses for
golf courses, durability and safety of equipment, and land
use, to life-saving techniques and physical fitness. The other
end of the research spectrum would include practices in
recreation therapy, group-work methods, informal educa-
tion, camping, low-organization activities, leadership func-
tions, as well as the deveIOpmental life cycle of leisure-time
needs and resources. An examination of relevant social
trends and their implications for recreation planning leads
into program questions which, in turn, point toward public
policy issues.

Social trendldata are available from all sorts of surpris-
ing sources. There are also changing forces and social. con-
ditions which are recognized but for which there are limited
data. When several significant social or economic trends
converge, social problems are likely .to emerge. For exam-
ple, urban poverty emerges more clearly when the current
trends in the changing occupational structure are observed,
when the unskilled and poorly educated migrate from the
Southern rural areas to the cities, and when, at the same
time, the middle-class population of the city moves to the
suburbs.

These social forces are interrelated, and a chain process
is initiated which results in a new type of disadvantaged
people in the central core of our cities. This isltnot only a
concern of the community’s social welfare agencies but
should also be an interest of the recreation and parks de-'
partment. Three current issues have importance for rec-
reation planning: the notion of increased leisure time, the
changing economy and the occupational structure, and rec-
reation’s role and the social problem of poverty.

One of the significant social trends frequently mentioned
in recreation planning is the increased leisure time made
available by technology, cybernation, and automation.

 

MISS CARTER is director of the Division of Research, Wel-
fare Administration, U. S. Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare. This material was presented at the 1964 Con-

vention of the American Association of Health, Physical
Education, and Recreation.

378

Workweek trends show gains in leisure time when plot
over the last half century; the sixty- and the fifty-hour we
is down to a forty-hour week.

When the pace of this change is examined, we find that

workweek has stabilized over the past five or six ye '

There is no indication of increasing leisure for the head
the household or for his wife. In fact, the changes over I
last decade would indicate less time for leisure but a.
money to spend for recreation. This trend is not true
the older population, the over-65 group, which is increas
in numbers and in retirement years.

Family income has been increased by higher wages,
more persons with two obs, and by an increased number
working wives. For example, when trends indicating
sons with two jobs are analyzed, the data show that prof
sionals and farmers continue to have high rates of multi
job holding, between seven and eight percent. This p
year, for the first time, equally high or higher rates w
found among carpenters, other construction craftsmen, dr
ers and deliverymen and “sales workers (not retail); 1
who were elementary- and high-school teachers (18.7
cent), and firemen, policemen, and the other protect'
services (14.2 percent). The lowest rate in multiple-j
holding for men was for managers, ofIicials, and propriet
most of whom already work long hours on their prim
jobs. When the trends for average weekly hours of prod
tion workers are examined, the prospects for increased
sure also appear to be less or stabilized.

Another trend which belongs in the leisure-time pict
is the ever-increasing number of working wives. If fami
were counted by the husband’s income alone, the num
of families with incomes over $10,000 would be cut by
most in half, from seven million to less than four milli
The higher the family income, the greater the likelih
that the wife was employed. The greatest increase am
married women was among the forty-five and over gro
with no children under eighteen.

M ORE LEISURE evidently is not as important as more
come for recreation. As personal wealth increa-
most families find they have more each year to spend
pleasure. This is illustrated by the fact that particip

RECREA

I

  
   
  
 
  
  
   
   
  
  
   
    
   
   
  
  
   
 
   
  
  
  

rts figures rose from $197,000,000 in 1940 to over $1,-
,000,000 in 1961. Spectator sports captured $904,000,-
l of their 1940 dollars but over $2,000,000,000 of their
'1 dollars. They bought $500,000,000 worth of radio
d TV sets, records, and musical instruments in 1940 and
800,000,000 worth in 1961. Very expensive items such
boats and airplanes could be enjoyed by more peOple.
mg with other sports equipment, these expenditures rose
111 $254,000,000 in 1940 to $2,200,000,000 in 1961.

The implications for recreation planning are interesting.
ere is less leisure because of more working hours per fam-
, but there is more money to enjoy the benefits. The fam-
l s with unemployed youth and adults, and the aged who
_ ' generally also at the low-income level, have the leisure
not the money.

Projections indicate that the shift to occupations requir-
higher levels of education, training, and skill will con-
,_ ue. Concurrent with this shift is an emphasis from goods-
oducing to service-producing industries, insurance, trans-
~ rtation, and personal services, such as medical and health
vices. The chief occupational trends in labor force pro-
tions to 1970 and 1975 are:

, A relatively rapid growth of white-collar occupations,
ecially in technical and professional fields.

A slower growth in blue-collar occupations, with skilled

hftsmen experiencing the most rapid gains, but no increase
all for laborers.

A rapid growth in service worker employment.
A steep decline in the number of farmers and farm labor-
Now what effect would these trends have on people in
eral or recreation in particular? Although the unem-
yment rate among all age groups rose from 4.0 percent
May 1957 to 4.7 percent in May 1964, or an increase of
,‘ .5 percent, in this same period it rose 56.2 percent in the
l. - to l9-age group, from 16.9 percent in 1957 to 26.4 per-
[1 in the same month of 1964. Our postwar baby boom
.' now hit the labor force marketplace full blast!

9' HAT DOES a highly developed society do when its lower-
level jobs disappear and when millions of people are
t prepared for occupations requiring a high level of edu-

.TOBER, 1965

 

cation? In our society we believe work is a virtue and al-
though the Gross National Product soars to $600,000,000,-
000, each able-bodied adult should exchange his services on
the free market for income. When, as the trends indicate,
there will not be occupational openings for the low skilled,
partially educated person which would yield income for
family subsistence, what is the answer? There is no indi-
cation of a vigorous movement to create or develop a suffi-
cient number of new jobs requiring only marginal skills.

What would be the public attitudes and reaction of rec-
reation or constructive use of leisure were provided for able-
bodied youth and adults who have no place in the free mar-
ket of an employment picture? This same question might
be phrased to include all families and children and adults
who receive their subsistence through transfer payments
rather than from exchange of income through work.

The reason this sounds so strange is because recreation,
like other good things, is generally considered to be a re-
ward for worthy work and thrift. The problem ahead is
either to create new jobs for this low-skill group or to find
a socially acceptable purpose for the use of this leisure. The
Youth Corps holds promise for a part of the youth. A role
for certain purposive types of recreation is not impossible as
one of the alternatives.

The following is a very brief review of the social factors
which describe poverty in an aflluent society:

0 0f the 47,000,000 families in the United States in 1962,
some 9,300,000, or more than a fifth of these families, had
total money income below $3,000. Eleven million of these
people were children.

0 Poverty-linked characteristics can be described according
to risk or vulnerability. Being nonwhite, a female head of
family, over 65 years of age, having four or more children,
or living in a rural area increases the chances of being poor.
Low educational achievement, having a low level of em-
ployable skills, or being young in the labor force with mar-
ginal entry skills, plus family, makes for a greater risk of
poverty.

0 Economic growth in itself does not eliminate poverty,
since an analysis of the composition of poor families shows
many have no members available for the labor force and
thus are unaffected by fluctuations in the business cycle and
corresponding changes in employment levels. The recent

379

 

growth of metropolitan areas has resulted in a new mass of
the poor. Urban reneWal and redeveIOpment has brought
further attention to these conditions which were formerly
hidden in the sections of the city unknown to the majority
population.

NOW, for the concern of recreation. The concerted-serv-

ices approach is more than a new cliche. The impov-
erished are no longer a problem for the economists, the so-
cial worker, the sociologists, the educators, or any one pro-
fession or agency. The problem is viewed in its totality
where a number of social forces convene on certain vulner-
able groups. The current demonstrations on delinquency
prevention and reduction, supported by the US. oHice_of
Juvenile Delinquency and Youth Crime of the Welfare Ad-
ministration, have opened new approaches to cooperative
efforts by local communities. These programs have chal-
lenged the traditional, institutionalized programs in their
services to groups who do not readily utilize the usual or-
ganized programs.

In a number of cities where concerted services are organ-
ized for a target area, the recreation agency as the city or
county unit has participated. These instances are perhaps
too few in number to allow for a statement which would de-
scribe the stance of recreation and the poverty problem. The
question is one which challenges the responsibility of gov-
ernment in the field of recreation. With a national recogni-
tion of the problem of poverty, what role does organized
recreation have?

The recent report of the President’s Appalachian Regional
Commission calls for new highways and recreation devel-
opment which will bring recreation seekers into the de-
pressed areas. This is viewed as economic development or a
means of stimulating a low economy. It constitutes one type
of legitimate responsibility for recreation. The question
before us is What other responsibility does the field of
recreation have in making its contribution to the social prob-
lems of poverty? The answer must come from the recrea-
tion field. Some of the potentials, however, are exciting and
challenging. Here are some considerations for recreation
planning as an active participant in the intensified attack
on poverty:

0 Recreation departments have, by necessity of staff limita-
tions, developed leadership in neighborhoods for help in
conducting special events or in their baseball leagues, tennis
championships, swim meets, et cetera. Now, we may label
this activity as increased emphasis on indigenous nonpro-
fessional services. It really means doing more of what you
have been doing in city slum recreation programs to bring
in local participants who can direct the recreational activi-
ties of others.

0 Recreation programs have often stressed their ability to
reach underprivileged youth who could excel in sports and
physical activities but who might be failures in the academic
line. Leading a muscle-building group or a baseball team

into a literacy program where reading and arithmetic has
real meaning for achieving immediate goals is not impossi-

ble. The trained group worker on the playground could be
the best go-between for getting the interest of youth into

380

  
  
  
   
  
 
  
   
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
  
    
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
 
   

channels for the education needed for today’s changing
bor market.
0 The local swimming pool controversy and the regional
cility where a program must serve a broader area is the t
ing ground for civil rights. There is no question about
relationship of equal Opportunities in the use of public
cilities and other kinds of equal opportunities for job
education which in turn are directly tied to poverty and

come.

PUBLIC RECREATION of all kinds is theoretically for a]
the people. Studies are available which indicate
utilization of public recreation resources by income 1e
A conservative guesstimate would be that ninety percen
the utilization would fall between the $7,000 family inc
per year to $15,000 income per year for all types of
supported recreation programs and developed resource
Most recreation outdoor and indoor is geared toward
so-called broad middle class. Although public recrea
is a general welfare service, it preserves much from the
el of gentry leisure now within reach of a larger p0pulat
In the harsh terms of our society’s value beliefs, acce
recreation must be deserved or used for protection of
larger society or to keep idle youth constructively occup
This is, of course, a simplification of public attitudes,
it serves to make the point.

The national distribution of recreation resources, part
larly those under tax support, will more likely follow
pattern of income distribution and therefore may have
viable part in an attack on poverty. There are no statis
on the proportion of all recreation resources utilized by
17,000,000 of our nation’s families with incomes un
$3,000.

Organized recreation in urban areas has a first-line op
tunity to engage the disadvantaged in its programs. M
good recreation programs have no barriers which hold
the uneasy underprivileged. No membership card is
quired; there are opportunities to watch before the cour
for participation is needed; you can leave, or come and
which is not permitted in highly organized activities. .
you can select or test out your own choice of activity w
out fear of getting the full curriculum. The “low-

0
"1
U:
{D
:3

tion” philosophy of recreation has a reaching out p
for the poor whose unpredictable lives are full of daily
ses and problems.

Recreation could offer a first experience in purpose
those who have become submerged and apathetic. The
ing of powerlessness is often used to describe the poor
disadvantaged. There are several routes to finding
worth, something to achieve, an aspiration before on
strong enough for literacy training, retraining for emp
ment, or for work experience leading to a ob.

There is a new era for the direction of recreation .7
vehicle for reaching the isolated or withdrawn and bring
them back into the mainstream of society. Recreation \
good leadership is not stuffy or pedantic and, by plam
ways to involve more people in social activities, recrea
could develop new powers and skills for these people
need them so much. #

RECREA

 
   
  

l

3' to obtain
rlified ofjicials for

r athletic program

Peters

recreation is that of officiating
elementary athletic events. Most
'reation departments depend upon
recreation leader to coach, officiate,
d supervise at the same time. Most of
agree it is hard to do three things
one time.
Therefore, I propose that a Youth
‘ cials Association be set up and ad-
inistered by the recreation. depart-
. 1t. The responsibility for this asso-
. ion would be given to the person in
rge of the elementary sports pro-
m. This association would be made
of high-school boys throughout the
y. These boys could be athletes, out
season, or other interested boys.
y would be paid $1.00 an hour for
t‘Wo-hour period. Even though a
me does not last for two hours, they
ld still get paid for this period of
- . If it was their second year, they
uld receive $1.25 per hour.
All the boys would be required to go
‘ a training school to qualify for these
Iciating jobs. This training school
uld he run by a profeSSional edu-
or or a local qualified official. If the
; reation department has a qualified
rson to teach this class, all the bet-
, but he must be qualified. This
1001 could be at the high schools, af-

' NE or THE BIGGEST problems in

 
   
  
   

. PETERS teaches at Salesian High
heat in Richmond, California, and

0 works part-time [or the Oakland
creation Department.

TORI-IR, 1965

l
k. OUTH OFFICIALS
‘ SSOCIATION

 

ter school, with the instructor rotating
schools. This two-hour period would be
used to learn the rules of the game,
as well as techniques of officiating. If
there were more than five high schools,
you could meet at night, with two
schools doubling up, or else use more
than one instructor. On Saturday there
would be a general meeting, for three
hours, devoted to the mechanics of of-
ficiating.

This school would run for three weeks
and would be culminated by the boys
taking two tests. One would be a written
test on the rules; the other, a practical
test on the mechanics of officiating. If
the boys passed the test they would then
become members of the association.
When the season starts, it would be the
job of the person in charge to set up
the league schedules so that the games
would be played on different days. By
doing this, one official could handle five
games per week, which would take in
ten playgrounds.

EACH OFFICIAL should work at least
four or five games per week, and
the person in charge of the program will
have to determine if he wants one or
two officials at each game. After the
season starts, the instructors will go
around and check the performance of
the officials and make evaluations. The
instructor should make rcconnnenda-
tions to the person in charge on the
placements of the officials. The associa-

tion should have one meeting, in the
middle of the season, to talk over any
problems that may have occurred. Every
effort should be made to give the offici-
als as much work as possible. If a boy
is making $8.00 to $12.50 per week, he
will work hard to keep his job and look
forward to officiating in the other sports.

The next step would be to set up
associations for every sport in your pro-
gram. They would all be run the same
way, and they all must have qualified
leadership. You would find that many
of the officials would carry over from
one sport to the next. Each association
would have a training school, and the
same procedure would be followed.
These ofiicials could also be used in
other activities as aids or helpers. These
associations might act as a stepping
stone to a part-time recreation leader
after their graduation.

This program would cost a little
money, but you would be getting quality
officiating. This, in turn, would relieve
the part-time recreation leader of this
additional burden and enable him to do
a better job of coaching and super-
vision. The recreation leader, relieved
of the responsibility of officiating, would
have more time to teach the funda-
mental skills of the various sports.

You will have to decide if you are
going to try to run a quality program
or run hall a program. If you want a
quality program, then you should con-
sider setting up an association for offi-
cials. Besides setting up this association.
you should have clinics to train the rec-
reation leaders in fundamental skills.
Again, this program should be taught
by only qualified people. Remember.
the athletic program is the largest pro-
gram on the elementary playground and
to run a poor program will be detri-
mental to the youngsters using the play-
grounds. If you want a quality program
then you must sell quality to the peOple
in charge of the recreation department,
and these associations are the type of
quality you can sell. ii:

381

 

FACT AND FICTIO ’

Pointing up the urgent need to provide exciting and challenging youth programs

 

382 RECREA

 

  

rd G. Kraus, Ed.D.

N 1115 recent review of Arnold W.
Green’s book, Recreation, Leisure,
and Politics (RECREATION, June 1965),
Robert Crawford points out that the
author seriously challenges a number
of positions which have been tradition-
ally accepted by recreation profession-
als in years past. As an illustration, he
: Green’s statement that delinquents have been found to
more athletic, physically stronger, and more skilled at
r ying games than nondelinquents. The specific reference
Recreation, Leisure, and Politics is this:

*

 
 
  
 

'!

. . . the continued linking of sports and games with moral
probin may be dreadfully old-fashioned, if not reactionary.
If it is held that sports or games or'any recreation program is
going to solve the problem of delinquency, then an intrinsic
connection is either stated or implied. It is probable that there
is no such relationship. In the most controlled and extensive
investigation of juvenile delinquency ever made, delinquents
on average were found to be more athletic than nondelinquents,
to be physically stronger, and to be more skilled at playing
games.1

  
   
   
   

The implication of Green’s point, and of later references,
. lear. He suggests that since delinquents are already more
hly skilled in games and sports than nondelinquents, and
ce these activities have apparently had no “character
lding” effect, there is little justification for expanding
ograms of physical recreation, or, indeed, any recreation
ogram, to “solve the problem of uvenile delinquency.”

if this were merely an isolated statement, it might be ig-
. ed. However, as an example of the kind of criticism of

  
 
  
 
  
   
 
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   

value of recreation service which is frequently voiced by
_°iologists,2 it deserves a thoughtful reply. In the first
co, the statement is factually inaccurate. In the second,
sets up a “straw man” which is all too easily demolished,
. which does not accurately represent the recreation pro-
ional’s view of the potential social contribution of his
d.

37hr“ are the facts? Green cites, as his reference for the
pposed superiority of delinquents in sports and games, the
‘dy carried on by Sheldon and Eleanor Glueck for the
t monwealth Fund, which paired five hundred confirmed
linquents with five hundred non-delinquents, over an
lit-year period. He refers to the text, Unraveling Juvenile
inquency,3 but fails to give a page reference. What the
necks actually say, both in this book and in a later simpli-
l version of their findings, Delinquents in the Making, is:

. . . we are forced to the striking conclusion that the majority of
persistent juvenile delinquents are typically of the mesmnor-
phic, muscular, well-knit athletic type.‘

This, however, is a description of physique only. Nowhere
either text is there any reference to SUperior physical

rformance by delinquents. Indeed, it is made abundantly
ar by the Cluecks that the confirmed delinquent has a

. KRAUS is chairman of the Graduate Recreation Curricu-
4, Columbia University, and author of Recreation and

' Schools (New York: Macmillan, 1964).

roam. 1965

much lower preference for competitive games and sports
than nondelinquents, that he participates much less fre-
quently in recreation clubs or supervised athletic programs,
and that his primary recreation outlet, in contrast, is dan-
gerous, semi-lawful activity roaming about the community,
such as hopping trucks or exploring railroad yards.‘5

This does not tell us that the antisocial behavior of the
persistent delinquent has been unchanged by participation
in sports and games. It does say that, as a class, he has not
been attracted to or successfully involved in organized rec-
reation programs. In addition to his preference for more
exciting and daring activities, a basic reason for this fail-
ure to participate is his own personality structure. The con-
finned delinquent finds it very difficult to accept the rules,
the discipline, the frustration, and the need to relate to others
meaningfully, that are inherent in the recreation center sit-
uation. All too often, his disinterest is matched by that of
the recreation director who seeks only an excuse to bar him
from the center, as an “undesirable’”3

Secondly, Green’s “straw man” lies in his suggestion that
any recreation professional believes that recreation, by it-
self, is capable of solving the problem of juvenile delin-
quency. This tired platitude may have been voiced frequent-
ly years ago, when “keep them off the streets” was an ac-
ceptable motto. Today, however, no reputable authority in
the recreation field would advance it. Instead, it is recog-
nized that the causes of juvenile delinquency are far too
complex to be eradicated by any single remedy or form of
treatment.

This was illustrated recently when the report of a six-
year study of two hundred high-school girls, chiefly of ra-
cial minority groups in deprived urban neighborhoods, was
made public. In the experiment, sponsored by the Russell
Sage Foundation, these girls had been given intensive indi-
vidual counseling and social group-work therapy experi-
ences, in contrast to a control group of two hundred matched
girls who had received no such services. However, the re-
port revealcd that there was absolutely no difference between
the two groups after a period of years had elapsed, either in
terms of high school “dropout” or other measures of be-
havior.T

Similarly, education, recreation, family counseling, or
improvement of housing or job opportunities cannot work
miracles when taken separately. They must be combined in
a meaningful and effective team approach, in which each
aspect of the problem (environmental, family structure. and
individual personality) is the focus ofconccrn.

ACCEPTING this “team” concept, what should the specific
role or contribution of recreation be?

First, it must be recognized that many of the delinquent
acts of youth do emanate from a craving for excitement, a
testing of one’s manhood, and a sheer reaction to boredom.
When we read of teenagers snifling cleaning fluid, or cling-
ing precariously to the outside of elevators moving up and
down in high apartment buildings (both of which practices

383

 

have recently claimed fatalities in New York City), or of
wild youth riots in vacation resorts during college holiday
periods, or of senseless, blind vandalism in a Long Island
society mansion or a famous artist’s studio, the word that
comes to mind at once is kicks. Irrational or not, it is a
worldwide phenomenon, among the mods and rockers of
Great Britain, the raggare of Sweden, and the young de-
linquents of the Soviet Union.

Thus, an important contribution of organized recreation
service must be to provide socially acceptable leisure outlets
that are as exciting and challenging as the antisocial acts
just described. Obviously, this is not easy to do. Yet, with
determination and imagination, it can be done. One voca-
tional training camp for school dropouts, sponsored by the
New York City Youth Board, began by providing active
competitive sports for its enrollees. It then introduced them
to sledding on steep slopes, to skiing, mountain climbing,
and horseback riding along difficult trails. These youngsters
did not sneak out at night to vandalize nearby cottages and
they finished the training course. Similarly, within the
community setting, some recreation directors have taken
teenage gangs with a record of antisocial behavior, and con-
verted their interest in hot-rodding, surfing, or motorcycling
into a socially constructive form of activity.8

This, then, is the first step—providing an attractive al-
ternative to delinquent leisure pursuits.

A second important aspect of organized recreation serv-
ice is that it has the potential for providing meaningful re-
lationships with understanding and affectionate adults. The

Gluecks point out:

. . . a far higher pr0portion of the mothers of the delinquents
than of the non-delinquents were openly indifferent or hostile
to them, often to the point of rejection . . .

Only four out of every ten of the fathers of the delinquents as
compared with eight in ten of the fathers of the non-delin-

quents, evidenced warmth, sympathy and affection toward their
boys...9

Within the recreation setting, whether it be a municipal
recreation playground, a Police Athletic League tournament,
a boys’ club or settlement house, the recreation leader may
develop the role of “surrogate parent.” He can provide, as
a nonpunitive, or repressive, adult, the kind of warmth,
friendship, and firm control, that the child has never known
before.

Third, recognizing the family inadequacies that are appar-
ently closely related to delinquent behavior and personality
structure, the recreation department must make a major
effort to promote family recreation services and activities.
The parents of delinquent children and youth tend not only
to be lacking in affectional ties, but to have confirmed pat-
terns of nonparticipation in constructive recreation activi-
ties. Therefore, it becomes important to structure family
programs which are inexpensive and appealing, which pro-
vide different settings or stimuli, or which help parents
become more involved with their children in different and
more favorable relationships.

The Henry Street Settlement House in New York City,
for example, has converted its summer camping program
from a residential camp for girls which had served 240
individual children during a summer, to a family day camp,
serving 550 families (almost 3,000 individuals) through

38 ’l

   
   
 
  
  
  
  
   
   
    
   
  
   
 
 
  
 
 
   
   
  
  
   
 
  
    
  
  
    
 
   

brief excursions. In many other ways, it is possible for
recreation or group work agency to stimulate family par
ticipation and improve their relationships through progra
services. ‘

Finally, two other kinds of program emphasis are bas ‘l
on the Characteristics of the young people who are to 
served. 

In those community settings where teenagers are rea
and willing to enter a teencanteen or other youth organiz I
tion program, they may be given a large measure of requ
sibility for organizing themselves and planning and co
ducting activities. Obviously, important personal values a
derived from this process, in terms of growing social m
turity. In addition, the fact the program is planned a
executed by “the teenagers themselves makes it much mo
likely that it will meet their real needs and interests.

At the other extreme, when groups of youngsters (partic
larly in low socio-economic neighborhoods) are not rea
to be affiliated with the program, an increasing number
municipal recreation departments have begun to empl
roving leaders, or street-club workers.10 These leaders, aft
making contact with the group members, counsel and ass'
them and, over a period of time, strive to change their syst
of values and behavior pattern to the point where they a
ready to become involved in the community center or agen

program.

ALL THIS is eXpensive and difficult, of course. Many dir

tors of small municipal recreation deparments
voluntary youth agencies may say frankly, “How can
afford to provide this kind of specialized service? Isn’t
our job to serve the normal youth population with our li
ited resources—rather than this group, which is so dich
to assist?”

The question is a realistic one; for too often, recreati
departments are hampered by a lack of sufficient funds a
personnel to undertake the difficult assignment of worki
with predelinquent 0r delinquent groups. The Reverend
Kilmer Myers, vicar for seven years of the Lower East Si
Mission of Trinity Episcopal Parish in New York Ci
commented, after a serious outbreak of teenage violence

that slum neighborhood:
The people will not listen to the plea that the desperate lie
of youth he met with adequate services. It is easier to puni
One important requirement is supervised recreation—5pc

programs and clubhouses that would enable the youngsters
develop under the watchful eyes of trained personnel . . .11

As John Kenneth Galbraith has pointed out in The Alf/flue

Society, our nation has a great willingness to spend wit
the private sphere of the economy, and an equally gr
reluctance to pay taxes to support vitally needed pub
services. In 1963, for example, almost two billion doll
was spent on lawns (grass seed, fertilizer, equipment, a
weed and insect killer), far more than was spent for org
ized municipal recreation services. In 1964, the Americ
public spent thirteen billion dollars on liquor and sligh
under seventeen billion dollars for instruction in pu Vb:
elementary and secondary schools. Yet, people constan ’
complain that taxes are too high and that “frills” and wa
in public spending must be cut.

RECREATI

    
 

The point must forcibly be driven home that the cost of
maintaining a prisoner in a penitentiary or reformatory lies

between three or four thousand dollars a year—far more

than adequate remedial or preventative services would be.

‘ From both humane and economic viewpoints, support for
adequate community services must be increased.

It is equally paradoxical today that huge funds are being
poured into the purchase and development of land and water
resources for outdoor recreation which are not accessible
to .great masses of our population, particularly urban slum
dwellers. For them, the reservoirs, lakes, and forest areas
iiat are being developed might as well not exist. And yet
9 is only recently that Secretary of the Interior Stewart
.Ildall and a number of leading legislators have expressed

,the determination that state plans currently being devel-
loped for review by the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation give
I full measure of attention to urban needs. Even this concern
is to be sharply focused on small city parks and open spaces
Irather than on the indoor centers, program services and
Leadership, which are so vitally needed.
HOWEVER, the real battle for community understanding
and support comes on the local, or municipal, level.
IUltimately, the community recreation director who is seek-
ing to eXpand and strengthen his program of youth services
is faced by the question, “Do you really accomplish any-
thing with respect to juvenile delinquency? Can you prove
it?” As indicated earlier, the task of proving outcomes
iWithin any area of social service is an extremely difficult one.
In addition, it is almost impossible to separate the effect of
one form of service from that of another—when a number
of services have been provided.

In some cases, figures can be cited which seem to de-
nonstrate a direct decline in juvenile delinquency as a result
of the provision of recreation services. In Coral Cables,
4 lorida, a War Memorial Youth Center was constructed at
1e close of World War II, providing a wide variety of
ecrcation and social activities for children and youth. Sev-
ral years later, juvenile delinquency was shown to have
. a lined by thirty percent in the community.12 Similar fig-
res have been cited in other communities, relating to the
rograms of municipal departments or voluntary agencies
Ich as boys’ clubs and settlement houses. \Vhat is deceptive
S that the basis for recording juvenile delinquency statistics

r even for booking young oflenders may vary greatly from
own to town, or even within a given community. Therefore.

  
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
 
  
  
   
   
 

Igures in this area are largely meaningless.

What is more significant is that, in the judgment of those
be are most familiar with the situation (police court
udges, patrolmen on the beat, probation oflicers and school
uidance counselors), there is no question about the need
or effective recreation programing to meet the needs of
outh and divert them from antisocial drives and activities.
" hat is crucial, however, if the program is to be successful,
. that it must take into account the nature of the delinquent
I predelinquent youth. It must provide services and activi-

  
  
 
 
  
  
   
   
   
 

s and an atmosphere that will interest and attract him.
lid in which he can grow toward more responsible citizen-
hip.

Ultimately, it must convince him that he is wiser to use

I CTOBER, 1965

his strong muscles (referred to earlier by Arnold Green)
to leap toward a backboard or crouch at a starting line-—
rather than to swing from an elevatnr’s under-carriage or
run from a policcman’s anIct. #

REFERENCES

lArnold W. Green, Recreation, Leisure, and Politics. New York:
McGraw-llill, 1964, pp. 104-105.

2/13 an illustration, see: Herbert J. Cans, “Outdoor Recreation and
Mental llealth," in Trends in American Living and Outdoor Recrea-
tion, O.R.R.R.C. Study Report 22. Washington, D.C., Government
Printing Office, 1962, pp. 233-242. '

3Sheldon and Eleanor Glueck, Unraveling Juvenile Delinquency.
New York: The Commonwealth Fund, 1950.

‘Sheldon and Eleanor Glueck, Delinquents in the Making. New
York: Harper and Bros., 1952, pp. 102-103.

“lbida Chapter Thirteen.

3 James A. Wylie, “Can Community Recreation Meet the Needs of
Youth?” RECREATION, November 1963.

Evelyn D. Baldoni, “Providence Takes a Hand,” RECREATION,
October 1963.

John Nagy, “Ripe for Trouble,” RECREATION, November 1962.

Ernest Goranson, “The Unacceptables,” RECREATION, January 1962.

7 “Counseling Fails in Delinquency Test," The New York Times,
February 20, 1965, p. 1.

3Gordon D. Hunsaker, “Explorers in the Surf," RECREATION, June
1965.

Kathy Rowan, “ ‘Cycle Set’ Revs Up for a Ball," RECREATION, Sep-
tember 1958.

9Sheldon and Eleanor Clueck, Delinquents in the Making, op. cil..
p. 62-63.

10Edward H. Thacker, “‘Roving Leaders' Extend Our Reach,"
RECREATION, April 1960.

11 C. Kilmer Myers, quoted in: Richard Kraus, Recreation and the
Schools. New York: Macmillan, 1964, pp. 46-47.

12Harriet Blackwell, “Every Community Needs a Place Io Have
FunJ’ Parents’ Magazine, February 1949.

 

All-AMERICAN HEAVY-DUTY

GRILLS

 
   
 
       

Features Not Found
In Any Other Grill

Built just like a small, com-
plete cooking range. Positive
6-way draft control gives faster.

   
  
   
  
  
   
   

Portable Stationary

model is as model for . . . .
illustrated permanent casrcr kindling, saves fuel, m-
l
with heavy instauation sures tenderer, juicicr steaks,
stove iron has support chops, barbecues. Cooks, bakes.
bése- 5”” for “lung warms-—burns charcoal, wood
IIIIS off. In concrete. .
or coal. CrIII revolves to per-
PATENT PENDING

mit cooking tO windward. Cast
of heavy stove iron with steel
pipe support, for lifetime. serv-
ice. Shipped fully assembled.

WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE AND PRICES

AMERICAN mmaouuo orvrcr co.

Mu u Drier“. and Want Now In Our Town Of

NAHMA, MICHIGAN, U.S.A.

'n *M- tin-IIIJOI and Hunter-c Upper Penmsula

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 385

THE LIVELY ART of
RETIREMENT

Community for retirees offers a plan-it-yourself life

Gordon D. Hunsaker

SO M E M 0 N T H S
AGO, a national-
ly known magazine
with tremendous
circula tion cut
loose with a blast
at “retirement com-
munities.” The

 

blast was not aimed at any special area;
rather, it was a shotgun approach with
great muzzle velocity, the words spread-
ing wide the instant they left the barrel
. . . landing indiscriminately and wound-
ing all, unfortunately. But that ap-
peared to be its desire. The article dealt
more with the financial end of retire-
ment communities than with the person-
al feelings of those who had purchased
homes 0r apartments in the many com-
munities. Granted, there were specific
cases cited and some personal inter—
viewing was done . . . but not enough.
Some poorly devised and poorly han-
dled communities were given the verbal
spotlight and the lonesome, weed-in-
fested, wind-blown communities shown
were enough to discourage any senior
citizen from investing. Combine with
this the quoted remarks of those living
within these areas and you have an
article of great influence. If the truth
were known, there are probably thou-
sands of retirees who, at one time were
heavily or mildly interested in retire-
ment communities, and, as a result of
the magazine story, now would not
touch one with a ten-foot pole . . . or
even a longer one.

I do not sell real estate and that, most
certainly, is not the purpose of this

MR. HUNSAKER is general manager of

the Sun City Civic Association in Sun
City, California.

386

article. I am a recreation professional
who has been fortunate enough to have
stepped into a unique and wonderful
experience, one which makes me yearn
for retirement . . . and I’m not joking!
Some months ago, a job listing ap-
peared in the California Park and Rec-
reation Society monthly newsletter. Sun
City, a retirement community some
twenty miles from Riverside, California,
and some eighty miles from Los An-
geles, was looking for a general man-
ager of facilities and programing. The
job was a little vague but the salary was
interesting and my resume was soon on
its way to the Sun City Civic Association
along with a request for more informa-
tion. A few days later, I was asked to
appear for a preliminary interview and
was requested to arrive early so that I
might inspect the facilities prior to the
interview. I did. I was amazed, inter-

Go, girl, go!

Who says retirees lose their
sense of humor? Sun City
residents are using all their
talents and experience

in developing a thriving
community full of activity.

 
  
  
   
    
    
   
     
  
   
   
  
 
   
     

l
I
I

ested, and completely intrigued \
what I saw.

Remembering that first" contact
Sun City, I was thoroughly amu .
some weeks ago when a graduate s
dent from the University of South
California asked to be shown throu
Sun City. She was working on her d
torate and had chosen to delve into ‘
leisure time of older pe0ple. In
words, following the tour, “I expec
to find real regimentation, with so

one resembling the shipboard social
rector with the whistle and sneake I
directing all activity . . . swimming fr
10 to 11 . . . dancing from 11 to 12 .
shufileboard from 1 to 2 . . . and t
sort of thing.” I laughed . . . I had a
pected exactly the same thing!

My first tour prior to the intervi
showed me people truly retired, truly
ease, doing just what they desired to l

  
  
  
   
    
   
   
    
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
  
 

l at the hours of their choosing. Dress
as informal as can be imagined:
rmuda shorts, knobby knees and all,
I obviously not caring one bit!
ks, fancy shirts, ridiculous, but
tical, and sun hats. The atmosphere
- one of contentment and “hurry” . . .
the rush, rush hurry of modern
erica, but a sense of hurry to enjoy,
anticipation, and it could be felt. I
casting around for the correct word
describe the people and the feeling
t night at the dinner table when l
. telling the family about my day and
‘ ddenly struck me . . . it was “hap-
- 55,” such a simple but rare thing in
present world! It was active relax-
n.

‘ hen I accepted the position, the
I reaction of my friends, both in and
of the recreation field, was, “How
you going to be able to stand all
In e old, old people day in and day

l

i

, '3” Their mental picture was one of
o nitarium . . . illness, the smell of
wheelchairs, white-froeked

‘ dants and doctors, all just waiting

‘ o icinc,

all the funeral parlor.
have news for my friends . . . and all
:e in the field of recreation: The
'dcnts of Sun City are active, inter-
(l, creative, and completely aware of
'r situation. I wonder if we, as rec-
ion people, have not somehow al-
(1 the majority of senior citizens to
c us the slip, dash past us who are
lowed down in a mire of statistics,
l0ping programs classically cate-
:_. izcd with old folks: the golden-age
, card clubs, picnics, et cetera, dis-
ed with the attitude that we are
' ing with senility. A pure disgrace

. ram 106%

Sun City’s Web Spinners, the retirement connrmnity's
Square dance group, also hold

membership in the Cow County "oedowu Association.

and most certainly distasteful to those
within our profession who have taken
the time to investigate the “old folks.”

For one thing, Americans are now re-
tiring at a much younger age. We all
remember grandpa working his farm
until he was seventy-two and then dying
at seventy-three. Inactivity killed him.
Our present-day “young retirees” are
180 degrees from this . . . and headed
in the right direction. Sun City is pack-
ed with talent, not latent talent, but tal-
ent which is being recognized and used.
Not used by me or the community’s de-
veloper, but by the people who live in
Sun City! They know what they have:
a high degree of intelligence, years of
productivity, experience, and, above all,
the fervent desire to make Sun City
“go.” Without direction or guidance,
there has cropped up here every con-
ceivable activity, both of a recreation
and service nature. And heaven help the
manager if he attempts to poke his nose
into the operation of the activities! The
residents have organized it and they
run it! Briefly, here are a few of the
service-type activities: the Red X, an
organization with duly elected officers
cares for other residents in time of need.
For instance, each Rcd X member dis-
plays a large plaque on the front of his
or her home . . . each block is covered.
If a resident is in need of a doctor,
nurse, crutches, eanc, food, or anything
of an emergency nature, Red X assists
immediately. The Woman’s Club activ-
ities include charitable deeds and proj-
ects of all types. Then there are veter-
aus’ groups, service clubs, such as
Rotary, Lions, ct cetera. All highly or-
ganized and operating efficiently. Rec-

 

multitudinous!

reation activities are
There is not room to list them all. Let
me again state, however, that each is
handled by its own members, and they
assist in the upkeep of the facilities and
enjoy doing it . . . another way of feel-
ing useful and productive.

OF COURSE, there are problems. My
office is full each day with resi-
dents who have a variety of problems.
But these wonderful people can also
laugh at themselves. More times than
not, the discussion or gripe sessions end
up with me and the senior citizen hav-
ing tea and cookies in my office while I
watch a wonderful transformation take
place: an apology for bothering me and
a good laugh at the problem which, fif-
teen minutes before, had been so great.
All people must be listened to, even the
78-year-old lady who wanted me to help
her with a traffic citation . . . she did
not want her husband to know about it!
Just look at the many telephone answer-
ing services there are now which. for a
fee, will do nothing but listen to the
gripes and occasionallyoffer afew plati-
tudes. And it is not the senior citizen
doing the complaining!

And the backgrounds my people
have! It is an education in itself just
listening to them relate their experiences

. and when you’re over fifty you have
had many! They come from all walks
of life and are interesting and interest-
ed. As regards the complaints, show
me any city of five thousand population
(or less for that matter) where the city
manager’s office or those of other city
officials are not loaded each hour with
complaining taXpayers! Sun City dif-

327

 

RECREATIONAL EVENTS

TOWN HALL
MAY 13th THROUGH MAY 20th, 1965

THURSDAY: MAY 13th

Shuffleboard Club
Art Class—Mr. Gilbert
Art Class—Mr. Gilbert
Creative Writing
Beginners Lawn Bowling
Red Cross Swim Class
Mollie's Corner
Lawn Bowling Club

'- Art Guild Business Mtg.
Beginners Pattern Dancing
Duplicate Bridge
French Class
Camera Club

FRIDAY: MAY 14th-

Christian Science Rehearsal
Chess and Checkers

Mosaics Workshop

Red Cross Swim Class
Beginners Art Class—Mr. Jackson
Drama Group

Religious Science Group
Duplicate Bridge

Bridge Club

Methodist Official Board Mtg.
Lutheran Choir Practice
Sewing Class (Beginners)
Modern Ballroom Dancing

SATURDAY: MAY 15th

Shuffleboard Club
Sun City Pinochle Band Practice
Lawn Bowling Club
Methodist Choir Practice
Chess and Checkers
World War I Veterans
(Potluck a'nd Travelogue)

SUNDAY: MAY 16th

Catholic Church Mass
Lutheran Church Service
Methodist Church Bible Class
Methodist Church Service
Christian Science Service
Religious Science Service

MONDAY: MAY 17th

Ladies Slim & Trim Class

Art Class—M rs. Cooper

Art Class—Mrs. Cooper
Bookmobile

Choral Society

Red Cross Swim Class

Woman's Club—Literature Section
Woman's Club—Drama Division
Bridge Class

Spanish Class (Advanced)
Canasta Club

Pinochle Club

TUESDAY: MAY 18th

Shuffleboard Club

Art Class—Mrs. Cooper

Art Class—M rs. Cooper

Bridge Class

Bicycle Club

Mosaics Class (Beginners)
Mosaics Class (Advanced)
Woman's Club Committee

Red Cross Swim Class

United Church Trustees
Woman's Club—Drama Division
Lawn Bowling Club

No NARCE Meeting in May

Sun City Knitting Club

Sun City Stamp Collectors Club
Bridge Club (Potluck)

Spanish Class (Beginners)

WEDNESDAY: MAY 19th

Ceramics Class—M r. Jackson
Ladies Slim & Trim Class

Red Cross Swim Class

Wood Hobby Craft

University Women

Christian Science Informal Grp.
Sun City Trailer Club

Sewing Class (Beginners)
Keena ers (Pattern Dancing)
Spanis Class (Beginners)
Scrabble

Webb Spinners (Square Dancing)
China Painting—Mrs. Hull
China Painting—Mrs. Hull

THURSDAY: MAY 20th

Shuffleboard Club
Lutheran Church Men

Art Class—Mr. Gilbert
Art Class—Mr. Gilbert
Creative Writing

Red Cross Swim Class
Beginners Lawn Bowling
Mollie's Corner

Lawn Bowling Club
Beginners Pattern Dancing
Singletons (Potluck)
Duplicate Bridge

French Class

Sun City Democratic Club

388

Art Room
Art Room
Women's Club Room

Swimming Pool
Town Hall

Women's Club Room
Town Hall

Men's & Women's Club Rms.

Sewing Room
Town Hall

Town Hall

Men's Club Room
Ceramics Room
Swimming Pool

Art Room

Town Hall

Women's Club Room
Women's Club Room
Town Hall

Men’s Club Room
Town Hall

Sewing Room

Town Hall

Town Hall

Town Hall
Men's Club Room

Town Hall

Town Hall
Town Hall
Women's Club Room
Town Hall
Town Hall
Town Hall

Town Hall

Art Room

Art Room

Town Hall Parking Lot
Town Hall

Swimming Pool
Women's Club Room
Town Hall

Women's Club Room
Sewing Room

Men's 8: Women's Club Rms.

Town Hall

Art Room

Art Room

Men's Club Room
Town Hall Parking Lot
Ceramics Room
Ceramics Room

Town Hall

Swimming Pool
Women's Club Room
Town Hall

Sewing Room
Women's Club Room
Town Hall

Men’s Club Room

Ceramics Room
Town Hall
Swimming Pool
Wood Shop

Town Hall (South)
Women's Club Room
Town Hall

Sewing Room

Town Hall

Sewing Room
Women's Club Room
Town Hall

Art Room

Art Room

Men's Club Room
Art Room

Art Room

Women's Club Room
Swimming Pool

Town Hall

Town Hall
Town Hall (South)

Men's & Women's Club Rms.

Sewing Room
Town Hall (North)

:00 AM-12:00 Noon
:00 AM-11:00 AM
Noon-2:00 PM

0 AM-12:00 Noon

AM-10:00 AM
AM-12:00 Noon
All Day
AM-12:00 Noon
AM-12:00 Noon
AM-12:00 Noon
AM-12:00 Noon

H

I—lt-H—II
ppfgngT-Iyoowo 1.01.0
000010-1wa030 OO

00000010000 00

10:00 AM-12:00 Noon
12:00 Noon-1:00 PM
1:00 PM-3:00 PM
7:00
7:00
7:30

. M-11:00 AM
10:00 AM-12:00 Noon
10:00 AM-12:00 Noon
12:00 Noon-1:00 PM
1:00 PM

All Day

9:00 AM-9:30 AM
10:00 AM-12:00 Noon
10:00 AM-12:00 Noon
10:00 AM-12:00 Noon
12:00 Noon-1:00 PM

2:00 PM-4:00 PM
4:0 PM-6:00 PM
6 0 M-8:15 PM
7
7:
8
0:
1:

0 AM-12:00 Noon
0 AM-12:00 Noon
8AM-11:00 AM

1 Noon-2:00 PM

8
9
9
2
9
10
10: 0 AM-11:00 AM
11
1
3
6
6
7
7

l.
fers not one iota. We have here retired

business executives, lumberjacks, race};
car drivers, test pilots, flower growers
carnival owners, singers, actors am,
actresses, a Pulitzer Prize-winning play;
wright, admirals and generals, a vied
president of a Steel corporation, i
Broadway star who has been requesteli
to return for one more performance, an.
just plain folks, every one with wondd.
ful memories . . . but still active and cod
tributinor.

1 am in a unique position, one of 
perimentation, and it is challenging. -
have said that our people want no on-
interfering with the organization 0
operation of their activities. So, 
what do 1 do? The title is grand: gen
eral manager of the Sun City Civic A!
sociation. The association is the keg
and its short story must be told in omit-2|
to understand the operation here. Orig
inally, the developers of Sun City oper-
ated everything within the city limi-
This included, of course, all recreatid
facilities. On December 31, 1964, 1'
facilities were turned over, lock, sto‘
and barrel, to the Sun City Civic Asslti
ciation. In other words, the develop.
and representatives speaking for tl‘
residents of the city had arrived at

    
 
 
  
  
 
  
   
  
  
    
  
  
   

agreement whereby, prior to Decemb
31, 1964, there would be a gen
meeting of the residents and an assoc'
tion would be set up to manage, co
pletely, the facilities.

With the assistance of a legal hr
articles of incorporation were set
and the Sun City Civic Association 1
in business January 1, 1965, as a 11
profit corporation dedicated to se
the residents of Sun City. The peo
who purchase homes in Sun City
required to pay a $20.00 per person
year fee as members of the Sun
Civic Association and they receive
activities card which entitles them
use, at no additional cost, all recrea
facilities and each can have two gu
at any time. With nearly five thous
residents, this is quite a sizeable bu
. . . guaranteed. However, the asso
tion immediately realized that a di
tor or manager was necessary. Bef
the turnover of facilities, the develo '
of the city maintained everything. hf

This being a desert area, everyth
is air-conditioned. Plumbing rep

Continued on Page

RECREAT

i

U 00"  -‘1I.-. . .

q I glmrmV’h—Pw- ‘— .

_ ,
..
‘0
r - -_I
.I l ,- .. x

.- (l

Malcolm SmHh phoccgroph

What drew 70,000 New Yorkers into Central Park?

imple. Beethoven, the New York Philharmonic . . . and the By August 28th, twelve concerts later, the Philharmonic

ew Stagecraft mobile concert stage. had played outdoors to more than 450,000 people. We
.L

New York needed a portable enclosure for the Philhar- think that's a record.

onic's new series of free concerts in each of the city’s Perhaps we can help you too. We specialize in the design
' ve boroughs. and construction of concert shells and stages . . . outdoors
. They asked us to help. or indoors, portable or stationary.

' We designed the world's first mobile symphonic concert A full description of our work in the field of musical
fage. 0n Opening night, last August 10th, over 70,000 acoustics is contained in our new 12-page brochure. Write
ew Yorkers came to hear and see. us at Stagecraft Corporation, 88 East Ave, Norwalk, Conn.

STAGECRAFT CORPORATION

:CTOBER, 1965 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

HITTING the TRAIL in CANADA

Melba Woelflé

a

3’9“ ‘30..” "L

.9, ‘ I, >
@$‘Ti€~ *‘ I .r '3

F

THE QUIET CALL of a woodthrush
l

. a meadow of alpine flowers
sparkling in the early morning

dew . . . a tumbling waterfall in a tree-
shaded glade yours alone to enjoy . . .
These are only a few of the rewards in
store for today’s pioneer-hearted trav-
elers who leave their cars behind and
follow hiking trails into Canadian by-
ways. Canada’s vast network of trails
leads right across the continent and
south into the States. In Canada, such
trails range from short walks off the
'Trans-Canada Highway to a beaver

dam or a breath-taking view to the'

mammoth 480-mile Bruce Trail through
the heart of Ontario.

The hardy hiker with a knapsack can
savor the spectacular beauty of the
Rocky Mountains in remote, seldom-
Visited areas. Superintendents of each
of Canada’s five national parks in the
Rockies provide well-marked maps,
campsites, and sometimes even a lodge
tucked away out of range of the usual
modes of transportation.

If you don’t happen to be the hardy
type, don’t let the “remote area” bit
scare you oil. Canada has nature trails
that were made just for you, pathways

 

MRS. WOELFLE is travel editor for the

Canadian Government Travel Bureau
in Ottawa.

390

Visitors at Witless Bay, Newfoundland, find flower-filled
meadows and winding roads to explore. The bay’s name is a
corruption of its earlier name, Whittles Bay, named after one
pf the pioneer settlers of this Canadian port on the Atlantic.

___——'

off the highway that are neither too
steep nor too long, but are packed with
enjoyment. A drive through Ontario’s
Algonquin Provincial Park, for exam-
ple, will reveal a number of such trails,
all clearly marked so the driver can
pull off beside the road and take an
hour’s hike into the woods. This is a
game reserve, and such a walk is likely
to turn up a beaver dam, a doe or a
fawn, as well as lovely scenery.

In 1964, some sixty-one thousand
walkers took to the nature trails in
Ontario’s provincial parks—an increase
of a thousand percent in a five-year
period. Rangers at these parks—Algon-
quin, Lake Superior, Quetico, Pinery,
Presqu’ile, Rondeau and Sibley—give
lectures and maintain musems which
make nature study alive and colorful.
The Gatineau Hills, across the river
from Ottawa, capital of Canada, and
the Laurentian Mountains, north of
Montreal, also offer extensive networks
of trails ranging from the short ones
designed for people who were born foot-
sore and weary, to the more challenging

pathways that appeal to people who
really enjoy walking.

Canada’s most ambitious trail pro-
ject is the 480-mile Bruce Trail cutting
northward through Ontario from the
Niagara River to the Bruce Peninsula.

Trippers leave the beaten track. take to the open roan

and the tranquility oi the wildernes

 

Glowing in the firelight, Teepee Town, deep in the Canada!
Rockies, is one of the many affectionate memories trail ride-r-
and hikers take with them. Different locations for the ba-
camps are chosen each year to explore new mountain area:-

“The Bruce,” as it is commonly called-
juts out into the Great Lake system be-
tween Lake Huron and Georgian Bay}
It is designed to link with the Foothill
Conservation Trail and Finger Lakel
Trail of New York State at Queenstoll
International Bridge, which in turl
joins up with the Appalachian Trail—.-
solid basis for the prediction that some,
day it will be possible to follow hikinj‘
trails from Georgian Bay to Georgia.
The Canadian link is still under deve
opment, but scheduled for completi

this year. It is based on the ideas 3

techniques already proven in the Ap

lachian Trail in the eastern Uni"
States and the Fundy Trail in Neil
Brunswick. I

In the four years since the idea fhl'
the Bruce Trail was first conceiF¢
eight separate Bruce Trail Clubs hh
been formed to cover the 480-11‘I
stretch. Working weekends and hi?
days, volunteers obtain permission QC.
lay out trails across privately ow '
land. They blaze trails, constrtrm'j
bridges, and erect signposts. In I II
years the Iroquois Club, responsi l
for the eighty-mile stretch through ,1
Niagara escarpment to Hamilton, h‘l
constructed twenty-five wooden 
bridges, forty-seven stiles over farmegil
fences, and. more than five-hundrflI

steps to help hikers up steep slopes.

RECREAT‘I

   
  
  
   
   
  
 
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
    
   
   
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
   
   
 

There already are numerous access
ints along the length of the trail, from
'hways 8, 6, 25, 10, 24, and 21,
ere motorists may leave their cars
d take a stroll through byways chosen
r scenic beauty. For example most
the Iroquois stretch overlooks Lake
l tario, while the fifteen-mile stretch
I m Wiarton to Dyer Bay overlooks
. t expanses of Georgian Bay for al-
u t its entire length. Eventually, the
dian Youth Hostels Association
us to build a chain of fourteen hos-
at strategic rest spots along the trail.
here are five national parks in the
'y Mountains—Yoho, Kootenay,
Iff, Jasper and Waterton -—plus
ier National Park and Mount
elstoke National Park in the Selkirk
ige close by. All have an extensive
. work of well-marked trails. Hiking

'~ ps are available from the ranger sta-

ns where you check in if you expect
' .
be away overnight. The ranger on

y will know where to locate you in

l
 EOPLE
‘ THE NEWS

Larry Neal, park
and recreation dir-
ector in Vancouv-

t ‘.
; er, Washington, is

5'
r

now on the faculty
.

at the University of
Oregon with the
recreation and park
lagement department in the School
jllealth, Physical Education and Rec-
_ tion Management. Mr. Neal holds
h BS and MS degrees from the uni-
sity in park and recreation manage-

t and earned the honor award of
school in 1961.

\

O
a
‘

‘ liam E. Noonan, Jr., state super-
. r for health, physical education and
eation in Louisiana, is now director
the Lifetime Sports Education Pro-
; , a national effort aimed at improv-
', the quality of instruction of indi-
l al sports skills. The project was
" blished by a grant from the Life‘

' Sports Foundation to the Ameri-

- am. 1965

case an emergency should develop.

Farther west is the fabulous Gari-
baldi Provincial Park. Although it is
only a short distance from Vancouver,
it is still almost untouched. There are
two lodges near the park station which
make a good headquarters for explor-
ing.

Canada’s midwest provinces—Sas-
katchewan and Manitoba—also offer
hiking pleasure. There are two nature
trails in Cypress Hills Provincial Park
to the south, while Prince Albert and
the other parks to the north provide
many more, among fish-filled lakes and
streams. Main hiking centers in Mani-
toba are Riding Mountain National
Park and Whiteshell Provincial Park.
A picturesque portage route on the
Whiteshell River is the basis of one of
the hiking trails. In fact, old voyageur
routes are the origin of many of the
Canadian trails.

Until the Bruce Trail was started, the
Fundy Hiking Trail of New Brunswick

can Association for Health, Physical
Education and Recreation (AAHPEB) ,
a department of the National Education
Association.

The project calls for a nation-wide
series of clinics and workshops for phy.
sical education teachers and recreation
leaders. These will include new teach-
ing techniques, programed materials
and expert skill instruction in sports
that can be played and enjoyed through-
out life. Initially, the project includes
archery, golf, bowling, and the racquet
sports. particularly tennis and badmin-
ton. Planned for three years, it has a
minimum budget of $150,000 in its first
year.

Charles 0. Handley, Sr., director of
research for the West Virginia Depart-
ment of Natural Resources, has retired
after forty-three years in the field of
wildlife research. A pioneer in the field
of wildlife study and co-author of the
first major wildlife research report, he

joined the old Biological Survey, pred-
ecessor of the U.S. Fish 8: Wildlife

service in 1924, and, with H. L. Stod-
dard, undertook a five-year study of the
bobwhite quail. This was the first major
study of wildlife in the United States.
Later, he taught wildlife management

was the longest trail in Canada designed
exclusively for pleasure-walking. There
are thirty-two miles of trail Open, path-
ways to spectacular views of the Peti-
codiac Valley and New Brunswick
wilderness. There also is a network of
good hiking trails in eighty-square-mile
Fundy National Park which lead to re-
mote rivers and lakes. Newfoundland,
too, is becoming hiking conscious. Wil-
derness hiking has always been popular
in this rugged, scenic island-province.
Now, hiking trails are mapped out in
Terra Nova National Park, and are part
of the program at newly opened But-
terpot Park.

Canadians and Americans are dis.
covering that they enjoy finding their
feet again and they are taking to the
trails with gusto. #

o For more detailed information on
Canada's national parks, and the vari-
ous areas mentioned, write to the Can-
adian Government Travel Bureau,
Ottawa, Ontario. Free maps and bro-
chures are available on request.

 

and ornithology at Virginia Polytech-
nic Institute.

 

IN MEMORIAM

 

o DONALD J. WALSH, supervisor of
music-drama-dance for the Department
of Parks, Recreation and Conservation
in Westchester County, New York, died
in August at the age of forty. He had
been with the department since June
1961 and was responsible for all county-
sponsored musical programs, including
the Westchester Pops Band. the West-
chester Pops Orchestra, the Junior Or-
chestra, Youth Symphony, Senior 0r-
chestra. Dance Band Clinic, and the re-
cent Battle of the Bands competition.
He was also in charge of the annual
county-wide Talent Show and the past
Westchester Arts Festival, as well as
the Summer Music Center. He spoke
many times at state and national con-

ferences dealing with the arts.

0 EVELYN DYER CLARK, well-known
choreographer and drama instructor,
died in July. She was associated on a
part-time basis with the parks and rec-
reation department in Auburn, Maine,

since 1943.

391

PLAYGROUND

in
KIWILAND

A spirit of cooperation
dominates the atmosphere

of New Zealand

E. A. Scholer, Ph.D.

A LONG-FORGOT-
TEN city has
emerged from the
mists of time to be-
come a wonderful
place in which to
live and work.
Thanks to a resurg-
ent community spirit and cooperative
effort, the modern river city of Wan-
ganui in New Zealand now rises where
the early Maoris once settled. Today,
it is a thriving city of approximately
47,000 and one of the top ten cities in
this land of the Hightless kiwi bird. In
addition, it enjoys unusual cultural rec-
reation facilities. The city’s planning
map pinpoints the development of these
amazing facilities as well as modern in-
dustrial and residential areas.

A cooperative atmosphere is evident
everywhere and prevails all through
city planning. Clubs and sports groups
as well as individuals have forgotten
about losing their identity and work to-
gether with only the end result in mind.
Today, through a cohesive public-rela-
tions program, one involving the co-
operation of the municipality, service
clubs, sports clubs, and individuals,
Wanganui has emerged as a city of
friendliness, beauty, and recreation.

Wanganui is one of the world’s an-
7

DR. SCHOLER, professor of recreation at
the University of Iowa in Iowa City,
recently made a six-month study of com-
munity recreation in New Zealand
under a Fulbright grant.

 

392

 

Playground designs are original work of Wanganui citi

New Zealand has no major playground equipment man
turer. This group is constructing a writhing sea serpent.

cient settlements. Nine centuries before
Captain Cook’s famous voyage, the
great Maori voyager Kupe reached New
Zealand. With his party, he worked his
way down the east coast of the North
Island and hence through Cook Strait
and up the western coast where he en-
tered and explored the Wanganui River.
Before returning to Polynesia he be—
stowed the famous Maori name on this
territory, Aotearoa, “Land of the Long

White Cloud.”
Today, the Wanganui River still

-winds down from the snow-crested vol-

canoes in the center of the North Island
to the Tasman Sea and the flightless
kiwi bird still inhabits the land. Since
World War II, Wanganui has been
building and growing with a steady
progress, that reHects the pride and co-
operative spirit of the city. There is a
complete cultural center near its heart
that includes a museum, housing one of
the finest collections of Maori artifacts
in the whole country; a library; art
museum; and the recently completed
Memorial Community Hall. Nearby is
Cook’s Gardens where Peter Snell broke
the World mile record on an electrifying
night in January 1962.

Located on the east bank of the ever-
changing river in Kowhai Park, a popu-
lar picnic and play site, famous for
many rare and beautiful trees from
which it takes its name, is a playground
with new and exciting equipment. This
is not just an ordinary playground with
swings, slides, teeter-totters, and other

ordinary equipment, but rather a

tasy world of make-believe, wit
question the ultimate in recreation

use for children. The swings are

Jended from the tentacles of a gian
topus, and the children slide down
back of a dinosaur.

Conceived by the Wanganui Jay
and developed by them in coopera
with the Lions Club, three Rotary cl
business firms, and interested indiv
als, this playground with a differen
a popular community affair and I
by the children. The apparatus, inc
ing the Tot Town Railroad and g
merry-go-round, is designed to st'
late the youngsters in imaginative
and is the ultimate in creative free-f
play equipment. Ideas and design I
all been the original work of local
zens, since New Zealand is not 1
enough to support a major playgr
equipment manufacturing concern.

THE STORY of Kowhai Park has
one of cooperation from its i
tion, with local authorities alert t
need for long-range planning. The
nicipality allocated the land for
playground and in addition pro
for the custodial services. Variou
vice organizations and
groups are responsible for the dev
ment and construction of the cre
play sculpture, while city officials
they have a responsibility in the k;
nical planning and placement of
equipment.

inter

 

The creative sculpture provides f

RECREA

   
   
  
   
    
 
  

through history from the thrilling
e on the dinosaur to blasting off in
tpersonic jet rocket. A giant whale,
1 porthole eyes and gaping mouth.
inds one of Jonah and the \Vhale.
rby a frolicking bronze porpoise
es his back for a junior rider. 111
tlier part of the playground, the
c adventurous children may tunnel
nigh a cement replica of Mount Nga-
hoe, one of the remaining active
:anoes on the North Island of New
land.

large sea serpent undulates in and
of the ground providing a frame-
k for swings installed in the curving
y. For tiny tots and footsore par-
. terrapins are located throughout
park where one may use them to sit
eat lunch or just to rest. Predomi-
in the playground is a shallow pool
sailing boats or wading. In its center
large relief map of the two islands
prising New Zealand. In reality.
is a skillfully concealed fountain.

()PL‘LAR SPOTS for the tiny ones are
a star-shaped sandbox and a slide
esenting the story of “Hickory.
'ory, Dock” complete with clock.
n the older youth have been remem-
d with the construction of a large
. alt slab for roller skating. 0n week-
tliis is a popular hangout for
gsters of junior-high age.
cross the parking lot from the play
ture, the Tot Town Railroad, with
w Zealand Lions Club Casey Jones
C throttle, operates every weekend.
dren are very fond of this particu-
ailroad line as it connects with the
h Pole Line which brings Father
stmas (Santa Claus) to Wanganui.
tly an unobtrusive sign at the en-
e attests that the playground is a
t of many and various groups.
sign points out the need for addi.
l funds to continue the work and a
y box is provided for those who
to contribute. No general fund-
ng drive has ever been conducted

  
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
    

to charge is made for the use of the
round.

the children of Wanganui and x is-
to the city, a trip to Kowhai Park
liout question a visit to never-never
It is a glowing tribute to a com-
ty’s interest in the leisure of its

 
 

 

Terrapins, scattered throughout the park, are used by tiny tots aml footsore parents
as either a place to eat lunch or just to sit and rest before aml after adventures.

 

v) '3‘

y, 4“};  I.°-¢

 

Anzaxm- “Maw

Children think a slide on a dinosaur is just as thrilling as a blast 09' in a supersonie
jet rocket or tunneling through a cement replica of illount Ngauruhoe. a rolcauo.

 

'1 large sea serpent undulates in and out of the. playground proriding a framework
far swings mstalled in the curring body. Equipment was eoueeired by local Jayeees

i' l'

 

PROGRAM

 

PART III

Teenagers can be dedicated and val-
uable volunteers if they are involved
in service projects which challenge
their talents and guest for maturity.
They are also inventive fund raisers
for community causes and to augment
their own pocket money. Various teen-
age projects and programs were cov-
ered in Parts I and II of this series,
which appeared in our May and June
issues. Here are still others!

EXPLOSIVES

THE AREA of programing for teens

is usually entered into with hesi-
tancy, reluctance, or perhaps not at
all. Today’s teenager is accused of and
blamed for everything from deliberate-
ly breaking Mr. Jones’ window while
playing baseball on the playground to
out-and-out gang warfare. Adminis-
trators, then, may be concerned over
getting into what may prove to be an
“explosive” situation. There may be
fights, vandalism, and racial problems;
special police services may be required.
The budget may be taxed for the pos-
sible additions of more part-time
trained personnel, special police, spe-
cial facility fees, and bus costs.

In establishing a municipal recrea-
tion teen activities program, some of
the basic administrative consideration
would be'the nature of the program
itself; coordination with other com-
munity agencies; its relationship with
other department programs; its lead-
ership and limitations as well as parent-

304.

How to plan stimulating acti
for those Very Important Teen

“WI. , .’

al help and cooperation; fees and
charges involved; and, perhaps most
important, the philosophy of teen ac-
tivity program.

The first aspect to be considered is
the variety and amount of program-
ing. The administrator will have to de-
cide if he wants a large program with
many junior and senior high groups
throughout the community, a small pro-
gram with a limited number of junior
and senior high groups in specific areas
of the community, or an individual pro-
gram serving the entire community.
Should the activities be just social, just
special-interest groups, just athletics, or
any combination of these? Should the
teen activity program become involved
in community-service projects?

Naturally the foregoing comments
will all depend, in varying degrees, up-
on the size of the community to be
served, its needs, and the amount of
budget available for recreation pur-
poses, as will all the comments to fol-
low. The recreation department must

coordinate the teen activity program-

with other agencies in the community
(the YMCA, churches, Boys’ Clubs,
and schools). Duplication of program
services should be avoided as much as
possible. Cooperation between the
schools and the recreation department
is of extreme importance because of
the need, in many cases, of utilizing
school facilities. It is advisable to es-
tablish a strong rapport between the
recreation administrafor and school
principals.

   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  

l

I

|

When establishing a teen a
program, the need arises to deci
it will fit into the existing pr
Will the teen activity program
playground program take pri
Possibly some other phase of
tion programing may take pr
Budget may become a prime co
ation here. The program may ‘
erated on bits and scraps of mon'
over from various other phases
total program or, ideally, the tot
gram may be revised and a bala
emphasis strived for.

The administrator will have to u
what type of person to hire in t
pacity of teen program leader. "
he be an elder person, steady, r
and established, probably with .
ily of his own? Or should he
younger person, less removed '
from the teenager, who could i
more closely with his problems

In some communities progra
confined to within the geographic
its of the city itself; in others 11
limits exist. It will be up to t
ministrator to find what is best I
mitted in his own city. Trips a .
ings to points of interest are a v'
set to any recreation program.
to consider: Will overnight tr
permitted? How will buses be pr
for? Will insurance fees be nece

Parental help and cooperatio
ways a problem area. How are r ‘2’
parent chaperones acquired and
What is done when the child get
and parents no longer want to '

Rpm

‘ Ty“:

 

 

. ixinmtely sixty percent of our youth are making good choices in their time of], while perhaps about fire percent

serious trouble. The remaining thirty-five percent, the “in-betweeners,’

l

l does one deal with the problem

, rents expecting the recreation de-
lent to assume their obligations?
t is done when youth do not want
parents to be present at activi-
A possible solution to these ques-
could be a parent advisory board
d in teen activity programing.
‘ consideration necessary in any
of programing is that of fees and
hes. Should there be any charge
een program activities? Should
i- be charges for some activities and
others? If so, which activities?
much should charges be? Another
[cm is deciding if the money
Id be administered by the youth
aced in a central fund by the rec-
? )n department.
for considering the various me-
ics involved in initiating a teen
am, perhaps the most important
deration is the philosophy on

  
  
 
   
 
  
  
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  

1 the teen activity program is es-
hed. Do we have to sell the teen
am on the basis that it builds so-
race, character, physical ability
piritual potential? 18 not the fact
t is a recreation activity justifica-
n itself for such a program?

tivities for teens, when well
ed, well organized, adequately
vised and chaperoned can and
d be a vital part of any recrea-
irogram. There has been no at-
- made here to offer any final an-

or solutions to teen programing;
't

y, however, serve as a starting

BER... 1065

point for anyone considering the pos-
sible initiation of a teen program.—
JAMES J. OSWALD, Coordinator 0/ Rec-
reation, Daly City, California.

THEY SPEAK THEIR PIECES

ASK a serious question and you will
get dead-earnest answers vfrom the
teenagers who attend the annual Attor-
ney Ceneral’s Youth Conference in Tex-
as. Twelve hundred young representa-
tives from all over the state attended the
conference last year and tackled such
problems as dropouts, citizenship, voca-
tional training, community service, law
enforcement, spare time and recreation.
Texas is the first state to call together
youth on such a scale to seek solutions
to their problems themselves. Bernard
M. Suttler of the Federal Bureau of In-
vestigation has been so impressed with
the conference he has been fervently
recommending this unique approach to
leaders in other states.

NEED HELP ? CALL-IN!

ARE YOU TIRED, run down, nervous?
Overcome by too much work?
Want to rest, but also have a lot of
work which needs to be done? Well.
“Call-In” (if you live in Greensboro.
North Carolina).

“Call-In” will provide you with teen-
agers who are eager to work and are
willing and able to do any type job.
Both boys and girls are on the roll of
the “Call-In” service. They will mow
your lawn, rake your yard, wash your

’ could be influenced in either direction.

car, baby sit, walk your dog, do your

ironing, washing, wait on invalids,
scratch your back, type. sell, and a
hodgepodge of many other jobs.

“Call-In” is a project of the parks
and recreation department. It was
started by Joanne Taylor, youth coor-
dinator of the department, who has
worked with youth of the city since she
joined the department several years
ago. —- From the Greensboro Daily
News.

CHAIN GANG
THE Youth Western Square Dance

Program in Spokane County, W'ash-
ington, was inaugurated in the spring
of 1961, with an enrollment of about
sixty young people, ranging in ages
from eleven to eighteen. Classes are
conducted on Saturdays from 9:00 AM
until 12:00 noon, divided into two les-
son periods of eighty minutes each.
One lesson period is for beginners and
the other is for the advanced students.
There are also two lesson sessions, one
commencing in October and running
through December; the second session
starting in the middle of January and
continuing through April. .‘\ limit of
grades is set at the fifth grade to senior
high school.

The youth program, under the super-
vision of its caller. organizer. and in-
structor, Ed Stephan, created such a
growth of interest that other activ-
ities, over and above the lesson, were
developed to keep the interest strong.

3‘ t3.

The youth, upon graduation from the
beginner lessons, automatically be-
come members of Dixie Chain Gang
Club. This group of teenagers elect
officers, hold meetings, and organize
dances for their group, as well as for
surrounding township teen square
dance clubs. This club, which was or-
ganized in 1962, now has over one
hundred regular members. The begin-
ners class, to keep interest, have formu-
lated what it calls “party night” held
on the first Friday of each month
throughout each session. The dances
are chaperoned by members of the
Western Square Dance Association,
and Mr. Stephan is usually on hand
as caller. The youth provide their own
refreshments during the evening. “Par-
ty Night” begins at 7:00 PM and con-
tinues until 10 :00 PM.

The ultimate achievement for the
teen dancers, who meet a high level of
proficiency, is an invitation to mem-
bership in the “Castaways,” an all-teen
club, with teenage callers. This is a
completely separate independent group,
with the exception of adult chaperons
and supervision.

To date, the registration of the West-
ern Square Dance classes for the youth
has increased to three hundred young
people, with an average of two hundred
participating in Saturday
classes. With the interest and expan-
sion of square dancing for the youth,
as to the adults, the craze for the twist,

frug, swim, et cetera, will have con-
siderable reduction in interest.

youths

SCOUTING THE MU-MESON

ONCE UPON A TIME, Boy Scouts
earned their merit badges for
blacksmithing, pathfinding, and stalk-
ing. The latest merit badges require
skills in electronics, metallurgy, and
atomic energy. The merit badge for
camping used to require fifty nights

ATOMIC ENERGY

M ETALLU RGY

 

spent outdoors under a tent and mak-

ing a fire by rubbing sticks together.
Today, scouts have to know their 'mu-
mesons, pi-mesons, k-mesons, and pro-
tons—if they want an atomic energy
merit badge. The US. Atomic Energy
Commission’s Division of Technical In-
formation has prepared a 78-page book-
let, Atomic Energy Merit Badge Kit,
for the project.

CERTIFIED BABYSITTERS

BABYSITTING can be a chancy prop-
osition for both parent and sitter
. . . but not in Leesburg, Florida! Ap-
proximately a year ago, during a re-
the Leesb'urg Youth
Council, cosponsored by the Leesburg
High School and the Leesburg Recre-
ation Department, decided to “become
alive” and take on projects which
would build prestige for the council,
provide good publicity, and build a
quality membership. One of the proj-
ects was a babysitting agency which
would have a three-fold purpose. First,
it would be a community service. Sec-
ond, it would create safer conditions for
children being tended, as well as for
babysitters. Third, it would create an
income for participating teenagers. To

date, response has exceeded all expecta-
tions.

organization,

This was a first for the recreation de-
partment. The first act was to contact
a pediatrician and the Florida chapter
of the American Academy of Pediatrics.
The council explained what they want-
ed to do and from there we sat down
to do the planning. A six-week train-
ing course was set up with instructors
including a local pediatrician, a poison
specialist, a safety engineer from the
local telephone company, a first-aid
specialist, and a representative from the
fire department to talk on emergency
procedures and preventative discipline.

During the course, much literature,
was distributed, thanks to various in-

OCEANOGRAPHY ELECTRONICS

Boy Scout merit badges reflect the times

396

  
   
 
   
   
  
 
  
    
  
   
  
   
 
  
    
 
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

surance companies, baby-food .
nies, and several nonprofit or
tions. The literature include
facts as safety concerning bab
children, child psychology, an
mation concerning what a ba
should find out before the pare
the home, such as where the te
is located, where the emergen
off for the heater and air condi
located, et cetera.

With the termination of the
program, a comprehensive test \
en, including multiple-choice,
false, and essay-type questio
members passed with flying co
seemed that only the highest
teenagers participated in this p
Special certificates were prese
the newly qualified babysitters b
burg’s Mayor Sam Pyles at a
session at city hall. Much public
given this project, creating .
image for the Youth Council, th
soring agency, and acquainti
public with the new service.

One of the first questions th
up after the babysitting agen
was initiated was the safety
babysitters. The recreation dep

has to be absolutely sure that an
ber of the agency will be co1
safe in any job for which he or
recommended. Every prospecti
ployer is courteously given th
degree! The following convers
not unusual. . .

“I was told I could call this

for a babysitter, is that right
“Yes, ma’am, it is. Where 1
live and what is your telephon
ber? How long have you lived
address? How many children
you have? What church do you I
Who recommended the service
Is your husband employed in
When do you need the babysitt
Approximately seven out of
quests come from citizens of t
munity who are easily checked I
then we have the other three
usually newcomers. We have e
requests from weekend guests
el lodges. To check these pe .
check with their ministers, em ,2,
references given by them, an
necessary (that is when there

Continued on. P:

RE

1 OP THOSE
, A LLOWEEN

s3

/\ '
PROGRAM

|
s

a
1

Shaw

4'

t

INDOW PAINTING, costume pa-
rades, and parties. That’s how
 Halloween shapes up on the
d-tried program of many recre-
departments. Now, it is real tough
nge the window painting or the
re parades. Anyway, who would
to? Yet, year after year of the
1 Halloween party format will
ly decrease attendance figures,
rtain! After all, with TV the chi]-
et more than their share of car-
they tire easily of large group
games designed to interest all
preschool to upper elementary,
ht restless waiting in long lines for

i
l
i
t

lout of some candy and an apple.
l ing all these points into conside-
from evaluation of last year’s
veen program in White Plains,
ork, it was decided some definite
's should be made. There should
ubstitute made for the cartoons,
mes must be played on a more
ualized basis to keep all ages in-
d, and the candy must be given
some sort of purpose.
, high-school drama group filled
t bill by consenting to present a
n’s Halloween play on the mov-
age, in place of the cartoons. We

!

HAW is an arts-and-crafts special-

h the Department of Recreation.
rks in White Plains, New York.

: ER, 1965

Lt-and-tried program format

‘ antees decreasing attendance

..

Fish for a treat in the witch’s caldron. This youngster had

 

just thirty seconds to catch a prize by some agile angling.

also filled the second bill by deciding to
use the candy as prizes—~——but prizes for
what? That brought us to the idea of a
Halloween carnival with all sorts of
Halloween booths where the children
would be competing only against them-
selves and where interest was built into
the program, so that it became contagi-
ous and was not forced.

After the carnival theme had been
approved, my cochairman, Janis Beach-
ler, and I did some brainstorming and
came up with the following booths:
Knock the Hat Off the Pumpkin:
Three chances to knock the witch’s hat
off the pumpkin with a beanbag.

Put Out the Light in the Haunted
House: Three chances to put out one
of the candles in the haunted house
with a water pistol.

Jump for :1 Treat: Two chances to
broad jump a certain distance.

Ring the Many-Armed Scarecrow:
Three chances to pitch a ring onto one
of the scarecrow’s many amis.

Fish for :1 Treat: Thirty seconds to
fish for a treat with a fishing pole in
the witch’s caldron.

Pin the Tail on the Black Cat: One
chance to pin the tail within a certain
circle on the black cat, while blind-
folded.

Guess the Number of Pumpkin
Seeds in a Jar: One number guess on

the number of possible pumpkin seeds.
Drop the Skeleton Bones in the
Coffin: Three chances to drop chicken
bones into a miniature coffin from a
raised position.

\Vhecl of Halloween: Children place
their admission cards on one of the
Halloween pictures on the wheel. The
one whose picture stops at the arrow
wins a prize.

Bob for an Apple: One minute to
grab an apple by your teeth only.
Pop the Ghost: Three chances to
throw a dart through one of the balloons
decorated as a ghost.
Name the Monster: One chance to
name the monster whose picture you
select through a number.

There is no limit to the number of
booth ideas that you can come up with.
It is also good to keep in mind what
Halloween-type TV shows the children
are watching, so that you can cleverly
work them into some of your booths
as well. As you can see. most of the
booths gave three chances for a prize,
with special advantages bcing given to
the younger child Ithrowing a ball
from a closer distance, not hating to
jump as far for a prize. et cetera). The
prizes, of course, were bags of candy.
Some children will undoubtedly receive
more candy than others. but you will
be surprised to see how evenly distrib-

39?

uted the candy will be because many of
the booths will feature luck instead of
skill.

A Halloween carnival is most excit-
ing when held out of doors under a
canopy of orange and black streamers,
but there is always the chance of rain,
so indoor quarters need to be planned as
well. For an outdoor carnival, the aid
of the maintenance department will be
needed to drive poles to hold the can-
0py and transport the horses and planks
which act as the base of the booth. You
can save yourself a lot of trouble by
setting the booths up along a backstop
or fence, for by doing this you have a
natural backing.

Depending on finances, time, and
workers, your next job is to decorate
the booths. Orange and black balloons
should Hy from everywhere. The tra-
ditional symbols of Halloween should
be found on the wrapping-paper skirts
of the booths. Huge signs should an-
nounce all events. When the actual car-
nival begins, it is also good to put up
ropes which separate booths and keep

 

They Scare Up Pennies

UNICEF Trick or Treat program celebrates fifteenth anniversary

MERICAN boys and girls from coast
to coast will participate this year
in the world’s greatest effort by children
to help children, UNICEF’s Trick or
Treat program. There is no way of
knowing just how many homes will be
visited, but some three and a half mil-
lion Trick or Treaters will be asking for
“treats” of coins which mean help and
hope for an Asian child burning with
malaria, a little African boy going blind
with trachoma, or a Latin American girl
who will be disfigured by leprosy if she
does not receive care.

Last year, the Board of Recreation in
Trumbull, Connecticut, sponsored a
Trick or Treat for UNICEF program
for over two thousand.children in town.
This was the fifth year of their partici-
pation and their efforts resulted in a gift
of coins that could equip eighteen small
mother-and-child health centers. This

recreation board is just one of many

398

 

the waiting lines as straight as possible.
The children also love it when the booth
keepers Wear apprOpriate costumes and
Halloween music fills the air.

If you are good at reading between
the lines, it is not hard to see that care-
ful preparation is the key to the entire
program, for once it is set up it prac-
tically runs itself. Therefore, it is best
to have a meeting of all booth keepers
before the actual carnival. They should
be shown the booth layouts so they
know where they are to be located, they
should have a set of rules on how priies
are won at their particular booth, and
should be made aware of the punch-
card system where as each child enters
a particular booth a certain number is
punched on his admission card. This
means that he cannot return to this
booth again, leaving room for others
to have a chance. The supervisors will
be kept busy during carnival time by
stocking bags of candy where they are
most needed and encouraging children
to go into booth lines which are less

heavily crowded.

that sponsor a UNICEF Halloween

across the country and play a valuable
part in stimulating nationwide partici-
pation of over three million young peo-
ple. The beneficient Halloween pro-
gram for the United Nations Children’s
Fund began in 1950 when a small Sun-
day School class collected $17 and sent
it to UNICEF. Now the program has
grown to an annual collection of over
$2,000,000.

Just how does a UNICEF Halloween
begin in a town? Sometimes a boy or
girl, new in a community, comes from
a town that has done it and sparks in-
terest among his new neighbors. Other
times, a youngster reads about it and
writes for information. Letters of the
same inquiring nature come from may-
ors, presidents of church groups, reli-
gious leaders, women’s clubs, fraternal
organizations, and pa'rents.

Many American children can remem-

Now, if you wait for every ch
get to every booth your carnival
mittee may need to put up lights I
it is over. Therefore, an hour
hour and a half of carnival time :'
tainly ample. With a stage presen
and a costume parade, the childre-
have certainly been given a mem(

Halloween. The children won’t
so though when they still have
more booths to attend, and the tin
up. In fact, they will moan and
when they hear, “Booths are clos-
But what better sign is there tha
children have enjoyed themselve-
our goal has been achieved?

Take your Halloween out of tH
lows and strike up, the band for a I
val. Not in my city though, as yo.
kill a carnival through abuse orl
use, the same way you can a Halll
Party. Have a party one year, a l
val the next, a
year after, and then a
before you repeat. I am still w!
on the other two. Any suggestior‘

   
  
   
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
   
 
   
  
 
 
 

ber no other way of celebrating
een. They have no memories of
less vandalism and the subsequen
ings. Wherever the UNICEF T
Treat program has been intro
most of the trouble has vanishe
has not been because of rules an
lations laid down by parents 0
soring groups, but because of
dren themselves. Their fun an
faction come from an order]
planned evening, and they feel
to be destructive along the way.

Preparations must begin well '
of time. The U. S . Commit
UNICEF offers official identi
materials and planning suggesti
well as a free kit of press release
and TV announcements, visual

and useful ideas for publicity. W 

U. S. Committee for UNICEF, 3 '
38th Street, New York 10016,

tailed information.

1{ECR

 
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
 
    
 
   
  
    
   
   
   
   
 
 
  
  
 

. FIPPLE
: THE
IIUTH

' ‘ to play? All
' an do it. All

Bed is a fipple
' ‘ mouth.

“Bunk

STUDENT was brimming with
ntlmsiasm. “A recorder class,”
1e exclaimed, “that’s what I’ve
' wanted to join!” The instructor,
ribner, music specialist for the
Park Department Recreation
rim, had just formed recorder ses-
. Dan was really nonplussed, how-
l 'hen the enthusiastic student
l: t out a tape recorder and asked
" o plug it in!

student was undoubtedly the
 rson to go away from Dan’s re-
class dissatisfied but his confu-
Pgarding the word recorder is
- ndable. It has come to mean
i ings. In the 1600’s when this
instrument first gained popu-
1e word record meant to “sing
bird” and the instrument ac-
its name because of the birdlike
of the sound it produced.
amazing little instrument, that
- of the media of expression of
ozart, and their contemporaries
very popular from 1600 to
s become exceedingly popular
nt-day Seattle as a result of its
tion through Seattle Park De-
I~ Recreation Division Cultural
sic classes.

easy to learn the recorder. All
‘0 is a fipple in the mouth. A
‘5 a wooden block in the instru-
nouthpiece that gets the air to
lg, much like a reed in a clarinet.
Scribner is responsible for the
. of the classes. When introduced

‘. NK is on the public information
- the Seattle Park Department
'on Division.

I

‘ L 1965

to the recorder in college, he was in-
trigued by the tone and relative ease
with which it could be played. After
becoming a member of the recreation
staff, he purchased a recorder and
music, took it home, and learned to
play. He knew that numerous schools
throughout the country use the recorder
as a means to introduce students to
playing a musical instrument. Realizing
that it is a serious musical instrument

in its own right. Dan saw its potential
as an ideal recreation musical vehicle.
He suggested offering recorder instruc-
tion at one of the Seattle recreation cen-
ters.

The class was formed and a small
number of people registered (only two
with previous experience with the in-
strument) . The first group was an out-
standing success. Meeting once weekly,
the students moved quickly through the
basic fundamentals of the instrument.
Four months later a concert was given
in conjunction with a string orchestra,
another of Dan’s groups. The concert
was a success and the new musicians
were invited to appear on KOMO-TV.

By this time Dan Scribner’s enthu-
siasm had infected not only the re-
corder group but also administrators of
the recreation division. Dan suggested
forming another class, and the story
announcing its formation was released
to various news media in the Seattle
area. One of the Seattle dailies, The
Post-Intelligencer, wrote a feature story
on the release. The Seattle Times also
devoted a section of its Sunday roto-
gravure section to the first class. The
result was that the park department
switchboard was flooded with calls.
Seattle music stores sold out their sup-
plies of recorders and music, and, in-
stead of one class, three had to be or-
ganized.

The recorder is a delightful musical
instrument not difficult to play. It
works equally well with large or small
groups, and beginner’s models are rea-
sonahly priced ($3.00 to $15.00) . Any-
one who is familiar with music can
learn to teach it; for example, Dan is
using students from his first class to
teach the newly formed classes.

lts wide appeal is noted in the num-
ber of business men registered in the
classes. Prior to the organization of the
recorder classes, Seattle had not been

 

too successful in attracting men into
cultural arts activities. Perhaps the
average Pacific Northwest male is too
close to nature to enroll in painting and
sculpture classes, although there are
many male professional artists in the
Seattle area. At least forty percent of
the recorder groups are men. The fol-
lowing comments from men students
are not uncommon, “I’ve never had
time to learn to play a musical instru-
ment, and now that l have I’m having
a ball,” and “When I pick up the re-
corder and attack Bach, all the problems
of the oflice and the world fade away.”

Seattle has discovered that playing the

 

Dan

Music specialist
starts a recorder group practice session
fippliug away at a Seattle recreation cen-
ter. Recorder appeals to young and Oltl.

Scribner (left)

recorder serves as an ideal recreation
activity. It provides an escape mech-
anism as well as an opportunity to ex-
plore serious music. As in any success-
ful activity, the satisfaction of the par-
ticipants is highly infectious.

Encouraged by the success of the
project, Seattle is planning additional
classes and arranging for small con-
certs where the new musicians can
display their talents. It also hopes that
the demonstrated interest in music can
be used as a springboard for the recre-
ation division to further expand the
music program which will aid in offer-
ing Seattle citizens a more complete cul-
tural arts program. #-

300

 

ADMINISTRATION

 

THE OPEN-SPACE PLANNIN

PROCESS

Arthur A. Davis

for nature and a place for man? I think we can,

but it presents new and difficult problems that will
test the mettle of all of us. President Johnson, in his speech
at the University of Michigan, eloquently expressed the
challenge as that of creating a great society which he de-
scribed as “a place where every child can find knowledge
to enrich his mind and enlarge his talents. It is a place
where leisure is a welcome chance to build and reflect, not

CAN WE PROVIDE in our crowded urban areas a place

a feared cause of boredom and restlessness. It is a place
where the city of man serves not only the needs of the body
and the demands of commerce but the desire for beauty
and the hunger for community.

“It is a place where man can renew contact with nature.
It is a place which honors creation for its own sake, and
for what it adds to the understanding of the race. It is a
place where men are \more concerned with the quality of
their goals than the quantity of their goods.”

The attainment of these goals will take wit, and skill,

and vision. They especially challenge those of us concerned

with parks, recreation, conservation, and the other values
provided by urban open space. We must plan to meet more

pressures on a shrinking natural resource base and a popu-
lation by the turn of the century of four hundred million.

Overall, it is expected that demands for public recrea-
tion opportunities will triple by the year 2000. Can we
possibly meet needs of this dimension? Can we do it with-
out destroying the natural environment and diluting the
quality of the individual recreation experience? 1 think we
can,- but it will require an enormous expansion of present
efforts and will require the application of some new ap-
proaches as well. . ,1

The Federal Open-Space Land Program, during its first
three years of operation, has assisted in the acquisition of
101,947 acres of urban open-space land. Grants totaling
over $32,000,000 have been made to 219 applicants in 177

 

MR. DAVIS is deputy assistant commissioner for open-
space land for the Urban Renewal Administration, U.S.
Housing and Home Finance Agency. This material is
from a speech given at the 1964 Joint Annual Conference

of the Illinois Association of Park Districts and the Illinois I’ accept new stewardship responsibilities. Their co

Recreation Association.

400

  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
 
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
    
  
 
 
 

communities. Acquisitions have included region
and greenbelts, community and neighborhood pa
servation areas, scenic and historic sites, and spec
space uses. Yet the total acreage acquired so far
Federal Open-Space Land Program is still only a .
acreage that goes into urban uses each year. W
long way to go.

At the state level, a number of programs assist 1
regional agencies to acquire park, recreation, cons
and other kinds of open space areas. New York, Ne
Pennsylvania, and Connecticut provide grants to
for these purposes. In many cases, there has be
way cooperation, with the federal, state and local
ments all contributing toward the common obj
open-space preservation. Both state and local f
be counted toward the non-federal share of matchi
of local agencies applying for federal open-sp
grants. Wisconsin, Florida, Minnesota, and O
launched state park acquisition programs. Last N u
California voters approved a $150,000,000 progra
and open-space acquisition, with a substantial sha
total going to local and regional agencies. In score
munities over the country there will be referen

financing new park and recreation developments.

THESE NEW EFFORTS, while encouraging, can
meet projected needs for open-space areas.
open-space acquisition programs cannot possibl
the pace at which land is being turned to ur
and land must be turned to such uses, in quantity
the needs of millions of people for homes, schools,
stores, industries, roads, airports, and many. other 4
Let us recognize these needs as pressing and legiti
be in favor of conservation and recreation does no
require that we be “against” people. Bulldozers, t
useful purposes.

Make no mistake: I urge the preservation for p
poses of every possible acre of urban open space, b t
nize that new approaches will be needed. Conser a.

'F-i.

and recreationists will need to broaden their r

natural beauty, their dedication to the conservati

R

 

it what basis
' I you decide
to develop an area
when to develop it or
c to develop it?

lorts to make recreation activities creative and con-
all these must be carried to the community, not
terms of parks and recreation areas, but as they
‘0 the total physical environment.
e we have roads and highways, let us have road-
5, foot paths, bicycle trails, landscaped areas, buffer
screens of trees, historical markers. Let us eon-
iese as usual concomitants of our road-building, to
uded in the planning, budgeting, and construction
of normal costs of our highway system.
will need new water supply reservoirs. Build into
rejects park and recreation features; provide access
ting areas. Municipal water supplies can be used
door recreation. If this means certain remedial
es, such as a new filtration plant, let us fight for them.

  
 
  
   
  

t

goal is to relate the natural world to the develop-
f man: From the flower border of the city-hall lawn,
shaded residential streets, imaginatively landscaped
facilities, neighborhood commons, candy-striped
unds, small parks that invite one to rest and chat,

paths paralleling our roads, accessible lakes and
irs, protected stream-valleys, historic sites that have
peeled and restored, spacious playing fields, munic-
unty, and regional parks, town forests, nature sane-
and conservation areas—all contributing to a con-

of nature interwoven throughout the entire fabric of
)an environment.

   
 
 
  
  
   
   
 
 
  
   
  
  
 

eed to involve the entire metropolis—the central
ities, the surrounding towns and suburbs, the rural-
ingc areas. All must work in some general harmony.

too familiar with the bumpy pattern of urban sprawl
mpanies unbridled growth—urban strips that mar
untrysides, auto graveyards astride entrance high-
our cities, pockets of blight downtown, monotonous
n sprawl near town. The list is long and sad.

.It PLANNING is vital. Coordination, setting up com-
n criteria, agreeing upon general priorities, look-
ie city and its surroundings in terms of total needs
1 resources—these are key steps in attaining our

In.

ognition of the importance of joint planning and

, 1965

 

acquisition programs, the law establishing the federal open-
space land program provides for increasing grants to thirty
percent of acquisition costs where applicants have, or share,
open-space responsibilities for an entire urban area. Since
few public agencies have authority to plan and acquire
lands through the urban region in which they are located,
most thirty-percent grants (69 to 99) have been approved
on the basis of intergovernment agreements. These agree-
ment vary in content, but all are intended ,to achieve as
nearly as possible the degree of coordination that could be
obtained by a single agency. To accomplish this, all must
have the following:

o A statement of policy or intent concerning the func-
tions, scope, and purpose of the agreement.

0 A method for coordinating both plans and acquisition
proposals for open-space land in the urban area covered bv
the agreement, not limited to lands involving federal assist-
ance.

lntergovernment agreements have been formed for twenty-
four metropolitan areas, including both Chicago and Peoria
in Illinois. The Chicago agreement has been entered into by
thirteen villages, cities, and counties, and involves eighty
percent of the area covered by the six-county Chicago urban
region. All of the signatories of the agreements qualify
for the higher grant.

We also have other instruments for preserving open-
space lands, such as zoning, requirements for the set‘aside
of open-space lands in new developments, official maps, sub.
division regulations. These, and related measures. can be
powerful tools in the race for open space. and their use has
a solid foundation in law. In Bermrm v. Parker (November
1954) the court held that “the concept of public welfare
is broad and inclusive . . . the values it represents are spirit-
ual as well as physical. aesthetic as well as monetary. It is
within the power of the legislature to determine that the
community should be beautiful as well as healthy, spacious
as well as clean, well-balanced as well as carefully patrolled.”
Few communities would not benefit from a careful recon-

sideration of how these administrative and regulatory meas-

ures could be better employed to the public benefit.

Still other tools are available, often overlooked or un-
tried because they are untested. Easements, long-term leases.
and development rights can often be acquired at less cost

401

and dislocation than would be the case if lands were pur-
chased outright. Compensable regulations offer a unique
approach to keeping lands in a natural condition. Tax in-

centives and preferential assessments, agricultural zoning—'

all offer promise for helping to preserve urban open space.

There is yet another need demanding our attention. Our
efforts to preserve open-space lands will only meet with
public support if they fill a public need. Therefore, we must

examine again how well our areas are serving human wants,
how responsive they are to meeting community require-
ments. Why are some parks sterile, insulated enclosures,
repositories of windblown papers, the sanctuary of vagrants
by day and vandals by night, while others are warm and
tranquil, colorful and secure, beloved by children, young
lovers, and our elders? No one is entirely sure. We need to
know more if we are not to waste natural resources that
each day are harder to acquire.

Why do children forsake hardtOp playgrounds to play
on nearby piles of fresh dirt from construction of a new
road or develop fascinating and complex games with dis-
carded cardboard boxes instead of using new playground
equipment? You can get several answers—and arguments.

Until we can better answer these kinds of questions, our
service to our community will be incomplete. In turn, it
will be that much more difficult to compete for limited

a __—___‘

public funds against other claimants that have cond
the community of their worth. 1

I
WHAT KIND or PEOPLE llve In your town? WP!

they really enjoy doing in their leisure time‘ri

you provide a choice, a wide range of enjoyment to I
all ages, sizes, and sexes? Is there opportunity for s.
pursuits, group activities, active sports, family gatheq
Is your park a stereotype of wooden benches, concretq
in conventional pattern, a statue attended mostly by pi
drinking fountains that do not quite supply enoughl’
for a decent drink or, alternatively, threaten to put 01.
eye, and well manicured grass complete with “Kee.
signs?

On what basis do you decide how to develop an .
when to develop it, or how to deve10p it? What assu I
guide your land purchase program? Availability?
Are you giving priority to acquisition, or using you
for development?

Intelligent answers to these questions require a
analysis of the community as we see it now and as we
its growth over time. Assumptions about the people
be serving should be basic to the Open-space p
process. After all, that is our final goal—to contri
the maximum extent we poSsibly can to the beauty
land, and the peace and joy of our people. #7

 

SHOPPING FOR RECREATION

Suburban shopping plaza transforms ravine into usable playspace

WOODED and trash-filled ravine, a hazardous area for
young children in suburban Hyde Park in Cincinnati,
has been transformed into a filled, graded, and sodded
area complete with ball diamond and protective high wire
fencing. For this, the children can thank Peter J. Palaz-
zolo, deve10per of the Hyde Park Plaza shopping center.
When Mr. Palazzolo was building the plaza, he needed a bit
more land for his parking lot than he had. The only adjacent
property that could be used was a former dump, with the
ravine and wooded area running through it, all of which
belonged to the city of Cincinnati. This property, in turn,
was adjacent to a city playground inadequate to do the job
for the neighborhood because it was too small and the ravine
area alongside it greatly diminished the usable playSpace.
So, Mr. Palazzolo offered to trade a $100,000 filling, grad-
ing, sodding, and fencing job, that also included new sewers,
for the small strip of land he needed to fill out his parking
lot (which is also used by those enjoying the use of balllields
and their spectators)—an excellent deal for the city because
it resulted in virtually doubling the play area, including a
vastly improved playground and three ball diamonds. To
provide protection for small children in the playground and
to further separate the playground and the shopping center
area, Mr. Palazzolo also provided a high wire fence and land-

scaping, vastly improving the appearance and safety of the
whole area.

The Cincinnati Recreation Commission was very happy

402

 

Initiative transforms former dump into shopping and recre

with the arrangement, as was the Oakley Playgrou

ers Association, a group of parents who act as uno
pervisors of the playground, and who long have so '
provement of the area. Mr. Palazzolo is very active 0 

of recreation in Cincinnati and throughout the count "

f' is just one instance of his work in developing 1‘

facilities. #
RE I l.

   
   
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
 
   
  
      
 
 
   
  
   
   
   
    
   
  
 

. d J. Guagnini

TRAVEL PROGRAM for recreation
t professionals has been initiated
. by the county recreation and
I 1society 'in Westchester County,
ork. The first venture took place
fall of 1964' when a delegate was
the World Recreation Congress
an. This Spring, the society sent
gate to the First International

an Congress of Parks in Monte

month-long trip to the Far East
d visits to Manila, the Philip-
Bangkok, Thailand, Singapore,
~ Kong, and Taipei. The society’s
te, Charles Bambace, superin-
t of recreation in Port Chester,
ended the opening of the Olym-
1es in Tokyo.

I'des being a valuable education-
rience for the delegate, the pro-
, ias been a tremendous public
ns medium for the Westchester
Recreation and Park Society.
mbace, upon his return, has
himself to make a colored-slide
ation illustrating his trip and
pressions of recreation in the
isited to Westchester civic and
organizations. As a result of
iresentations, the \Vestchester so-
as gained prestige and respect
hese organizations for its initi-
1(l dedication. The membership
asoeiety, impressed by the results
first venture, then established a
rent professional travel program
tee.

5 selected to attend the Congress
te Carlo. Twenty-one countries
epresented. The general sessions
out that many of the problems
by park and recreation depart-
are similar the world over, in-

UACNINI is superintendent of rec-
“ in Harrison, New York.

V a, 1965

CREATION
ROUTE

ty society initiates travel program for recreation professionals

cluding open space, population explo-
sions, budgets, vandalism, air and wa-
ter pollution.

Recreation, as we know it in the Unit-
ed States, however, does not function
to a great extent in Europe. Several
of the Scandinavian countries, Switzer-
land, and Great Britain have made
great strides in playground develop-
ment but for the most part program-
ing has been left to the schools,
churches, and private clubs. In France
and Italy—the two countries I toured—
emphasis has been placed on the crea-
tion of parks and gardens. Many of the
European delegates believe that recre-
ation programs on the municipal level

 

will become a necessity in the near
future.

During the first three days of the
Monte Carlo congress, delegates had
the privilege of hearing twelve infor-
mation talks relating to park, garden,
and recreation administration. The
next three days were absorbed by tours
through Monaco, Cannes, Nice, Men-
ton, and San Remo. Receptions were
held by oflicials of each city for dele-
gates. The next six days were spent
touring the French and Italian Rivieras.
I had the privilege of teaming up with
John Paulos, superintendent of parks
of Miami Beach, and his horticulturist,
Robert Kundtz. We drove in a rented
car at our own desired pace and en-

 

ADMINISTRATION

 

joyed the majestic beauty of this area.

\Ve stopped for two days at Porto-
fino and San Margherita and took time
to visit the fishing villages along the
northern Italian coast. We continued
down the Italian coast to Pisa. After
climbing the 286 steps of the tower, I
was amused to find five teenage boys
playing cards at the top.

From Pisa we went to Florence where
we had a personal tour of the city with
its park director, Dr. Pietro Corenich.
We discussed fully the scope of parks
and recreation in Italy with Dr. Core-
nich and learned that one of the most
critical problems in Italy is the unavail-
ability of water. Vandalism is also a
growing problem even in the cultural
centers.

At Biella near Lake Como, relatives
and friends were instrumental in ar-
ranging personal tours for me of Mt.
Oropa, one of the finest skiing centers
in Italy, and the Medical Center for
Sports in Torino. Visiting this medical
center, equipped with the latest equip-
ment for research, was one of the high-
lights of my trip. Most of the leading
European athletes go here for various
physical and medical tests. Active files
are kept on all athletes, and I am sure
that the results of these findings will
be of invaluable assistance to the medi-
cal and coaching professions the world
over in the years ahead.

Biella, a city of sixty thousand peo-
ple, boasts one of the finest community
center facilities I have ever seen. A gift
by a local industrialist, the million-dol-
lar complex consists of separate out-
door and indoor swimming pools,
gymnasium, activity rooms, and cafe-
teria—all in a beautiful park setting.
I was impressed most with the immacu-
late equipment room with push-button

controls for all operations, including

403

temperature, water, and filter“ systems.
The facility is operated by the city and
is used by local schools and the general
public on a fee basis.

Was the trip worthwhile? Emphatic-
ally, “Yes!” I was able to plant the
seed for the establishment of a Profes-
sional Recreation and Park Personnel
Program with European officials and
delegates at the congress. I also dis-
cussed the possibility of an exchange
program with delegates from Canada
and the western part of the United
States. Perhaps these exchange pro-
grams can become a reality in the near
future.

While in Italy, I had the opportunity
to learn about E.N.A.L. (Ente Nazion-

ale Assistenza Lavoratori), a national

organization doing work comparable to
that of our Industrial Recreation Asso-
ciation. I also obtained an insight on
the work and influence of C.O.N.I.
(Comitato Olympio N azionale Itali-
ano), the Italian National Olympic
Committee on the sports program in
Italy. My discussions with students,
teachers, and officials gave me a better
understanding of Italy and its pe0ple.
I also would like to believe that I did
“my bit” to give these people a better
understanding of American life and the
operation of its municipal recreation
and park programs. The slide presenta-
tions that I will be making to New York
educational and service organizations
will serve as a public relations media
for the work of the Westchester County

1

Recreation and Park Society arJ
recreation movement in the U
States in general. ‘
The first two trips were made
ble largely through the generoust
eration of an individual who is
ested and impressed with the w.
Westchester’s professional recrq
people. The Westchester societf
strive to finance future trips by in
ing various fund-raising projects.-
I hope that this professional-
program initiated by the Westck
County Recreation and Park SI
will be implemented by other;-
groups. We in the recreationq
should continue to experiment-
only with equipment and facilitid

with ideas. #

 

Art of Retirement
Continued from Page 388

 

heating unit repair, swimming pool
upkeep, and all other maintenance
problems were now the responsibility
of the association, it all takes money
and organization. Facilities include
bowling green and shufileboard courts,
both lighted for night play; croquet
and horseshoe areas, all grassed
and beautifully maintained; an arts-
and-crafts compound complete with
simulated waterfall, patio, and benches,
that includes a wood shop, lapidary
shop, jewelry room, ceramics shop, art
room, sewing room, darkroom for cam-
era bugs (all of the shops are complete-
ly equipped), stonecutters, kilns, polish-
ing wheels, grinders, bench saws, plan-
ers, rips, easels, sewing machines; in
other words, everything that is needed
is there and available to all residents
and is kept in good repair and replaced
as necessary. This all takes money,
crew, and organization. Then there is a
swimming pool with deck furniture,
dressing rooms, cabanas; and a town
hall which is unbelievable: huge, roomy,
completely furnished, versatile with
fully equipped stage and loud-speaker

equipment. The town hall can be split
into two large rooms and has a kitchen
fully equipped, chairs, tables, rest-
rooms, and the like; an outside Greek

«’M )4

theater, lighted for night productions;
and the association’s oflice building con-
taining my office, reception room for
our secretary, board room and treasur-
er’s room where the year’s billing is
done and a running record of all who
move into Sun City is kept with the co-
operation of the developers.

This is big business, certainly on a
par with municipal administration but
with new and never-before problems.
However, Sun City residents are de-
termined to make this new “home rule”
work. They are proud of their city . . .
and it is just that . . . and are making
my ob of general overall management,
scheduling of facilities, and, at times,
father confessor, an easy and exciting
one. To make it even easier, each or-
ganization (see list of activities) runs
itself . . . elected ofiicers, dues, if re-
quired,”et cetera. All taken care of by
them. They love to have me visit them
and say a few words . . . but hands off
their club operation!

I am seeing retirement, active retire-
ment, in action and it is astonishingly
successful. The homes are well built,
the developer is legitimate, the city is
clean, and homes are beautifully kept.
This is the third year of Sun City’s op-
eration and it becomes more solid each
year. Its impact on the county has been
felt greatly, both politically and cultur-
ally, and, in particular, financially. The

Resort Improvement District
City is the county organ here
made up of Sun City residents wh
had experience in business anc'
state, or county administration
member of the County Board of
visors who serves this area is a mi
of RID and stays in close contacf
the community.

And is all of this recreation?‘

   
   
 
 
 
    
 
   
 
  
 
   
    
 
 
  

bet! Because, as the old sayin
“You Don’t Haveta.” It’s done t
interest and, along with the conv
31 forms of recreation, keeps t
ticipating citizens busy and 
them what is so desperately wish
a feeling of being needed and of
plishment. They are producing
their own terms. Their terms
against the belief that retirement
senility and infirmity. Sun Cit
the myriad of other legitimate
ment areas, have made a great
general recreation thinking. W
update our approach to old age
attendant problems. I am sure
doing this, slowly but surely, an
sure a visit to Sun City would
many a recreation person to cha
ideas and delve into a deeper st
age and retirement. I am only 1.,
that these wonderful people will

too involved and too efficient a

one day they will not need me!

RECR

 
 
   

ti on bond issue

 
  
  
 
 
   
 
   
   
 
     
  
   
 
  
  
 
  
   
    
  

, . Parham

IIO WANTS [0
live in a mo-
asphalt,
concrete, and stuc-
co jungle? Not the
twelve thousand
citizens of Cuper-
lino, California,
’ ved themselves from such a fate
'i iey approved a million dollars
k acquisition last October. By
ty-three percent majority, the
in this rapidly growing com-
nestled in the western valley
othills of Santa Clara County,
11 Jose, agreed to spend $1,450,-
aequisition of thirty-five acres
for five park sites and construc-
a city hall. This was the city’s
neral obligation bond issue.
ll-to-do “bedroom” community,
the family breadwinner makes
rage yearly income of $9,500
ving in a $25,000 home, Cuper-
' d a mere fifty-nine hundred peo-
r 960, five years after incorpora-

' 5 population more than doubled
' years and is expected to increase

notonous

by 1985. The city recreation
ncnt was initiated in June I.
' esidents up to this point had cn-

. 1e regional or mountain parks
the Stevens Creek Reservoir but

. RlIAM is recreation director in
' 10, California.

{L 1965

' TE “YES”
R PARKS

ng city passes its first general

now voiced their need for parks closer
to home.

The success of the million dollar
measure for parks is a culmination of
persistent efforts by a number of groups
and individuals in the community to
bring the city its first park sites. The
five sites selected include four neighbor-
hood parks of five acres each, adjacent
to schools to utilize the five to eight
acres of school playground space, thus
giving the city park an actual area of
ten to fourteen acres of green or recre-
ation space. A fifteen-acre central park
will offer such facilities as a community
center, sports center, little theater, space
for art exhibits, hobby classes, and
meetings.

The victory is all the more significant
as it more than doubles the city prop-
erty tax rates. Approximately four-
fifths of this amount will go into land
acquisition with the remainder for par-
tial development programs. In addition,
Cupertino’s active membership in the
regional Association of Bay Area Cov-
ermnents may bring in a thirty percent
open-space grant from the federal gov-
ernmcnt.

Obviously. the park information,
promotion, and public relations pro-
grams were commanding factors in the
success of the election. From the first
series of park sitc proposals since 1960,
to the decisive victory at the polls,
elements of the general public partici-

pated in all stages of decision making.
Former members of the recreation com-
mission, the citizen-initiated recreation-
education committee, and various in-
dividuals participated in several study
sessions with the city council, the city
manager and the recreation director.

Eight months passed before the city
council finally adopted the prOposed
park sites. Six more months went by
before the election. Thus, for fourteen
months, from inception to the polls, the
park proposal received a great deal of
citizen participation, guidance, and
direction.

THE SIX-MONTH campaign covered the
gamut of park promotion and pub-
lic education. With slides, charts and
maps, representatives of the recreation
department alone .made twenty-five
presentations of the park plan to vari-
ous service clubs, individuals, public
forums, and neighborhood family and
homeowner groups. The latter were
especially effective in bringing the pro-
posal to every neighborhood in the area,
allowing the homeowner and his friends
maximum time, in familiar surround-
ings, to study and discuss the park sites.

In July, the Cupertino Junior Cham-
ber of Commerce designated the park
program as its top priority community-
service project. The Jaycee campaign
included a voter registration reminder,
as the Jaycee park committee immedi-
ately conducted a quick neighborhood
and organizational survey to find out
where the park program stood. Results
of the survey underscored the need for
more neighborhood park information.
and more publicity directed to answer-
ing specific concerns. The survey pin-
pointed the particular blocks where
seventy percent or more of the voters
favored the measure. The marginal
areas, also identified in the survey, re-
ceived the brunt of furthercampaigning.

The independent weekly paper, a
strong supporter. prepared and pub-
lished a series of two articles and two
editorials, ran off about three thousand
extra copies of these articles. back-to-
back, for distribution. Out of the serv-
ice clubs. a citizen’s committee emerged
six weeks before election. and raised
the necessary funds budgeted for the

Continued on Page 418
405

STATE
AND

LOCAL“ A
DEVELOPMENTS

 

ARIZONA. Preservation of some of the state’s most fam-
ous Indian petroglyphs has been assured through purchase
of twenty acres of land northwest of Gila Bend from the
U.S. Bureau of Land Management by the Arizona State
Parks Board. BLM Phoenix District Manager Richard H.
Petrie presented the Painted Rock Historical Site patent to
Dennis McCarthy, state parks director, in ceremonies at
Phoenix. The land was acquired under provisions of the
Recreation and Public Purposes Act, which provides for
state, county, municipal and other government agencies to
purchase lands for public use at $2.50 per acre, or lease it
for $.25 cents annually.

Preservation of the Painted Rock petroglyphs has long
been sought. Because the site is located near major popula-
tion centers, it has suffered extensively from vandalism. The
paintings appear on a large deposit of granite boulders
scattered through highly scenic terrain. In presenting the

patent, Mr. Petrie said: “The R&PP Act has provided nearly

ninety thousand acres of land to the people of Arizona for___

recreation and other public uses. We are pleased to see the

state act so rapidly to save these irreplaceable relics of the
historic past.”

MICHIGAN. The Michigan Society of Architects at its
51st Annual Convention awarded its First Honor Award
for architectural design to Baypoint Beach Bathhouse which
opened in the summer of 1964 at Stony Creek Metropolitan
Park northeast of Rochester. The award plaque was pre-
sented to the Huron-Clinton MetrOpolitan Authority, a
regional park agency serving the counties of Livingston,

Macomb, Oakland, Washtenaw and Wayne, and to Wakely-

Prize-winning bathhouse, Stony Creek Nletropolitan Park.

 

ELVIRA DELANY w

,rproposed $3,000,000 development plan, is the l

Kushner Associates, architectural consultants, St.

Shores.

Baypoint Beach Bathhouse placed first among forty
entries submitted in the first annual honors awards
gram conducted by the MSA. “Baypoint Beach Bathl
was awarded the First Honor Award because the pld
an excellent special quality related to the natural en!
ment of the site. This is a very disciplined yet ti
structure distinctly human in scale. The transitior‘
open sky to part shelter to solid shelter is excellent,” 5
the MSA in presenting the award.

NEVADA. A.spectacular 40,720-acre section of the.‘
Mountains has been designated a scenic area by
mountain Region of the US. Forest Service. The nev‘
Mountains Scenic Area on the Humboldt National F0
tends some eighteen miles along the rugged, glaciate
of the Ruby Mountains southeast of Elko. Within t
are four peaks over eleven thousand feet in elevation '
ing Ruby Dome (11,350 ft.) , numerous peaks ox

thousand feet in elevation, and over two dozen alpi

  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
   

nestled among its cirques.

Features of the newly established National Forest
Area include the well-known Lamoille Canyon wh'
carved by an immense powerful river of ice which
out a U-shaped canyon with sheer side walls rising
two thousand feet above the canyon floor. Along t.
ribbon-like waterfalls come spilling down from sm
cradled in cirques and hanging valleys between t
peaks. Lamoille Canyon also provides the principal
of access to the heart of the scenic area with trails
from the road end at the head of the canyon to
Lake and the top of the mountain range. The small
lakes and streams, although remote, are well-stock
trout and offer excellent fishing to the hiker or ho
traveler. Within the area are many species of wil ‘
cluding mountain lion, bobcat, coyote, badger,
many small mammals, and a variety of birds i
several species of grouse. The rough mountainous
provides important summer range for mule deer w
driven down to the lower slopes by fall storms.
livestock graze portions of the area during the
months.

John Fremont in 1845.named the mountains
Humboldt River after his friend, Prussian naturali
Alexander von Humboldt. Later in 1854 Colonel E
toe, searching for a military route across central
changed the name to Ruby Mountains when one of
discovered “rubies” (actually red garnets) while
ting for gold near Hastings Pass.

NEW HAMPSHIRE. New construction totalling

334 for several major projects under the $9,000,
park expansion program is under way in eight Ne
shire state parks. Development of Pawtuckaway S 

in Nottingham at a cost of $1,077,706, the am p ' ’

Continued on 1

RE

   
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
   
   
  
  
 
  
  
   
   
  
    
  
   
  
 
 

AL AUTHORITIES must regard the
omotion of culture as a major
ction in the programs they offer
l as in physical environment.
e- a report of the Education
ltural Committee of the Inter-
1 Union of Local Authorities
et at the UNESCO Youth In-

n Cauting, Germany, last Feb-

Present were representatives
' e United Kingdom, Finland,
y, France, Austria, Yugoslavia,
‘ . erlands, and the United States.
I Yational Recreation Association
i resented by Siebolt H. Frieswyk,
_ consultant in the performing
. ieadquarters of the IULA is in
' gue. Subject of the meeting
e Role of Local Authorities in
ng an Interest in Cultural Mat-
Citizens.”
lared:

. .
- The committee’s re-

e sense, culture can be regard-
: way of life. It implies a style
which forms the framework of
ion. We can think of culture
ural complement to toil, that ex-
which enriches personality
htens the quality of living. As
'ng definition, we should re-
e field of culture as including
. ly literature, history, drama,
llet, and the fine arts, but also
architecture, the planned phys-
ironment of man in town and
, and sport. Culture in con-
ry civilization tends to be asso-
1ore with leisure-time activity,
1 by‘attention to environment
ence can be felt in the factory
llice.
important for local authorities
the attention and the
of expenditures devoted to
other than those meeting ma-
ds, and, indeed, to regard the
n of cultural matters and to

' {159

I

. 1965

CULTURE
A LOCAL
LEVEL

raise standards of appreciation and
achievement, it is desirable that there
should be greater opportunities for in-
dividuals to participate directly and
show creative initiative. The develop-
ment of cultural awareness makes the
individual more critical of his environ-
ment and a more active participant in
community affairs.

Local authorities will naturally be
involved to a greater or lesser degree
with different kinds of provision. Li-
braries, museums and concert halls
need to be directly provided. Local au-
thorities should ensure that adequate
buildings are available for local dra-
matic groups and choirs to practice and
perform. Libraries are of special sig-
nificance since the availability of a wide
range of reading material is essential
to modern man. A library service
should be free if possible. Libraries
are also growing points of other activ-
ities of a cultural kind, including music
and dramatic activity... .

Local authorities should encourage
citizens to be more concerned with the
quality of the physical environment of
the town. with the architecture of in-
dividual buildings and with town plan-
ning. There might be more cultivation
by local authorities of their own indi-
genous resources to achieve a more dis-
tinctive local environment.

CULTURE and education are closely
related. Where responsibility for
the appropriate services is divided. it is
important that cooperation should be
developed. Owing to the growth of the
corpus of knowledge and of the techni-
cal demands of modern society, there is
sometimes a tendency for cultural mat-
ters to be excluded from the school
curriculum. There is, however. a need
to broaden the basis of education on
which culture rests. This may need more

International conference examines culture
in contemporary civilization,

whether found in factory or museum

and better trained teachers. Adult edu-
cation should assist in developing cul-
tural interests and more opportunities
are needed for individual creative work.

Too often, people are discouraged
from visiting museums and public gal-
leries even though the barriers are psy-
chological only. Too often the atmos-
phere is excessively solemn and austere.

In the past, works of art were often
produced under the patronage of the
wealthy. Today, public bodies tend
more and more to shoulder cultural
responsibilities for community works of
art. Here, local authorities have an
important role to play. In commissions
dealing with cultural matters they
should always seek the advice of ex-
perts and give full recognition to the
place of the individual artist in society.
At the same time, we feel it important
that the layman should play his part in
association with the experts. but the
authority must keep a balance between
the conservation of the old and valued
and the contemporary. A balance must
also be kept in the range of provision
between high levels and more popular
levels. Culture must not be thought of
as for the intelligentia alone... . ln
framing central government grants,
cultural as well as other needs should
be taken into account so that those au-
thorities with least resources may be
helped... . There must also be coordi-

nation between the cultural authorities

L'rban

areas too should be able to offer more

and the central goverrment.
assistance to the surrounding rural
communities.

There should be more international
exchanges of cultural work between
authorities to develop a mutual appre-
ciation of different cultures. Possibly

UNESCO might be able to assist in

these projects. #

407

 

MARKET NEWS

0 FOR BRIGHTER PROJECTION IMAGES, the illumination sys-
tem of the Transpaque Travel-Graph, a new overhead pro-
jector, employs a brilliant 600-watt quartz iodine lamp
cooled by a high-velocity fan blower. An automatic thermal
switch keeps the fan operating after the lamp has been turned
off until a cooler internal temperature has been reached.
Cool air is drawn in at the operator’s side of the chassis, and
heated air exhausted through the rear away from the Opera-
tor. A three-way switch selects lamp and fan, fan only, and
off.

The optical system includes a projection head which
houses the mirror and lenses, and permits the projected
image to be raised thirty degrees by simply tilting the front
lens element. Focusing is accomplished by rotating a large,
knurled knob. The focusing mechanism is a sturdy friction
drive. Focusing is from five and a half feet to infinity. Full
specifications and prices are in a descriptive brochure avail-
able from Projection. Optics Company, 271 Eleventh Ave-
nue, East Orange, New Jersey.

0 SEMPER PARATUS! A snake-bite emergency is a possible
everyday occurrence to thousands of people. Are you, your
associates, maintenance crews, and other recreation and park
workers prepared for such an emergency? Campers, hikers,
hunters, fisherman, et cetera, all need to be prepared. On
outdoor outings it is quite usual for leaders to carry a first-
aid kit. Now you can add a snake-bite kit to your outing
gear. It is pocket-sized, yet contains a suction device, a
tourniquet, incision surgical blade, and an antiseptic swab.
Further information on the snake-bite kit is available from

Becton, Dickinson and Company, Rutherford, New Jersey.»

( Ask for their leaHet Be Prepared for the Unexpected.)

o OBJ'ECT OVERBOARD? Not all the valuable items hidden
under water are retrieved by scuba divers. Plain, everyday
vacationers are discovering that lakes, rivers, and estuaries
are happy hunting grounds, strewn with a wonderous assort-
ment of odd objects. Many of them are valuable, and all are
free, as salvage. All you need to be a treasure hunter is a
length of rope and a five-pound magnet. You can troll the
bottom or fish from the nearest available bridge or causeway.
Most magnet fishermen find active channels the most fruitful
areas, since boatmen most often lose implements while under
way. Magnet hshing probably began in American industry
when tools occasionally would fall in the water and could
best be retrieved, simply, by suspending a magnet on a rope."
Boating enthusiasts soon discovered that a handy magnet,
small but powerful, was invaluable equipment, especially
around family craft and small children, where implements
lost in the deep are a routine happening.

The magnets have a gauss rating of 2100 and will lift

408

I
For further information, please write directly to source given and mention RECREATION M

 
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
   
 
  
 
  
 

over 150 pounds . . . more under water. Boatmen l1
been known to rescue lost outboards which worked
deep water. Any‘ferrous metal object, of reasonable -
weight, can be regained easily, and without getti
Write to Edmund Scientific Co., 107 East Gloucest
Barrington, New Jersey 08007 for complete informa

0 YOU CAN WEAR AWAY s
new art-and-craft materi
WHITTLE-STONE is easy to sa
and carve with just ordina
hold tools, such as coping
saws, pocket knife, a large n
sandpaper, or stiff brush. "
STONE is compatible with al
materials, watercolors, solv
paints, and glues. It can als
at 14500 for melting imbed
ceramic frit, and enameling
 WHITTLE-STONE comes in a ‘
ten pieces 8” -by-12’ ’ -by-1’ ’ ; however, custom-size
are available. It is suggested that you begin with t
sized blocks and move on to larger areas. Arc
panels have been made with this product (size 12’
by-ll/g”) with quartzite accent inserts. For addi
formation, write to the home office at 833 North 31
Colorado Springs, Colorado ( attention Mr. Bill Ri

 

o MULTI-PURPOSE SHELTERS. All-aluminum cab
vide complete, compact showers and dressing ro
signed primarily for use with outdoor swimming p
have many other outdoor applications in parks, c
beaches, marinas, playgrounds, cabana club
grounds, and other recreation areas.

Constructed of aluminum tubing frame and
ribbed aluminum sides, they provide a permane
tenance-free outdoor shelter that will not rust, 0
weather. Roofs are of translucent fiberglass an
vated to provide maximum light and ventilation.
pitched to shed water, and are attractively finish
and white striped baked enamel. Each model is
with magnetic closing door with inside safety lock
seat, soap-dish, towel rod, plastic clothes-storage
non-clogging chrome_,shower head with shut-off
connects to any standard garden hose. Optional =
includes mixing valve to provide hot and col
Complete details and price information are avai
American Products Company, 13000 Athens Av
land, Ohio 44107.

  
 
   
    
      
  
    
  
      
  
  
  
  
  
    
      
    

I OURCE GUIDE

 ro ADVERTISERS

Page
n Playground Device --..-  -- 38S

Mtg. . . -._ -- - 374
' . Publishing _.. _--_. __ Inside Back Cover
‘ Roller Skates --  413
._..._-u- _---.__..-_ 410
ity Fund  -----  Back Cover
' Fires- . 412,414
' 'rne _-.._.___._..___.----._.--._--_--_..411
' ver and Craftsman --.. ---._.- 370
. ~ and Bradsby __-_.-_.- Inside Front Cover
Chemical ..-_-. -......----...---.__._ 370
Re _ , -- _---_--_ _._-_-- Inside Back Cover
- .- ............................. -- 369
t--- ...._-_ _
Retardation

_..—n-u- ----. —

—-—-m._..-.....

t

- -u- _---- m--_—-

b

_ . __ _..“.---_..-...------.. 370
I Studios  ..-- _.."-----__..-_ 412
Trading . _---- - -._._-___----_.._._.. 412

Anschutz _ .......................... .._ 417
' t- - .-_._--_..___-.--_-._.....-_-- 389
eather _---_-a---__-------...---------.. 370

. aple have
?* trophobiaik
' is easy

, overcome.

traphobia is fear of going to‘

doctor. The cure starts when

lift your phone and make an

pointment with your doctor
a complete physical checkup.

Half the cases of cancer could

cured, if they were diag-

sed early and treated

mptly. Your best cancer

urance is a health check-

,every year.

Make that phone Call

. It might save yourtife.

‘RICAN CANCER SOCIETY

1:0 108':

  —-I’lease Write Directly To Sources Given

——and mention RECREATION Magazine

ARTS AND (RAHS

Glue-it-yaurself funl All you need are the
everyday simple paper supplies—scissors, pa-
per, twine, pencils, shopping bags, et cetero,
and Elmer's Glue-All. A booklet, Paper Fun,
gives instructions for thirty-one proiects, cover-
ing holidays, toys, party equipment, and a short
but helpful bibliography. ‘Party and Hame
Decaratian,‘ another idea booklet with Elmer's
Glue-All contains ideas for holidays and par-
ties; how to decorate screens, window shades,
lamp shades, bazaar booths, et cetera. Bath
baaklets available free from the Borden Cam—

pany, 350 Madison Avenue, New York City
10017.

Rags by mail. leaders of groups of rug weavers,
hand braiders, handcrafters, et cetera, should
be an the mailing list of a waste material com-
pany which will send you, from time to time, a
sampling of what is available in cotton iersey
strips, woolen head ends (full loorn width of
sixty inches), nylon blanket binding ralls (five
to six inches wide—cosin cut ar split), assort-
ed laapers (nylon or cotton), et cetera. You
write far samples, hald an ta them, and are
notified when certain items of supplies are
exhausted, and new items available. All items
are waste materials or excess. Moteriols come
in five-, ten-, fifteen-, and twenty-pound plastic
bags. Write to Lee A. Cohen, 8242 Brookside
Road, Elkins Pork, Pennsylvania 19117.

EQUIPMENT AND SUPPllES

Faolpraaf private parking. Self-sticking, con-
secutively numbered permit emblems allow full
control of your parking lot without expensive
parking-lat attendants. Your parking facilities
can be reserved exclusively for your awn auth-
orized personnel. The emblems come in six dis-
tinctive designs, red or blue, priced reasonably.
Prices include consecutive numbering. Emblems
are pressure sensitive and meant for inside win-
dow application only. Choice of copy, custom-
made to your specifications. Write for camplete
details to Cordell Campany, 5106 25th Avenue,
Kenosho, Wisconsin 53140.

No mere rubber stamp. The messy stamp pad
which has accompanied rubber stamps since
their invention is a thing of the past. A new
pre-inked rubber stamp is good for thirty thou-
sand impressions without a stamp pad on the
very first inking. The sharp, cleor impressions
which the pre-inked stomps give last the life
of the stamp, and exhaustive use and research
tests have yet to wear out a stamp in efTorts
to determine its lite-span. Signature stomps to
save the time at busy executives (or students,
directors, leaders, et cetera) are especially fine
when produced in the new process, and all the
usual rubber stamps, including stamps to fit
an the ends of pencils, can be produced in the
new pre-inked woy. Stomping time is soid to
be cut by at least fifty percent, no matter what

use the stamp is put to. A system of color
separators enables the use at up to seven colors
in various portions of a single stamp. All colors
used with conventional stamps are available
used with pre-inked stamps. For full information,
write to Ben Rogers, Public Relations Division,
Burlingame/Grassman, lnc., 740 North Rush
Street, Chicago 60611.

MAINTENANCE

Everybody aut of the pool! Swimming is one
spart thot iust moves indoors as summer ends,
making pool maintenance and upkeep a year-
round problem. A new thirty-three page cata-
lague contains the latest in checking raam
equipment, chemicals, cleaning equipment, div-
ing boards and accessories, filter installations
and accessories, paints, pumps, safety equip-
ment, pool thermometers, water-testing equip-
ment, paal fittings, floating basketball and
volleyball game equipment, flaating chaise and
Tip-a-Tub. The catalogue (#40), well illus-
trated, is available from Holage’n, 4653 West
lawrence Avenue, Chicaga 60630.

Dust it off. The Calcium Chloride Institute has
available a bulletin an Eliminating Dust Araund
Construction, explaining the advantages at dust-
free detours—better public relations, safety to
motorists, savings to contractors, foster con-
struction. The bulletin tells where and how to
use calcium chloride. It includes application
charts shawing haw much calcium chloride to
apply for difierent roadway widths. The bulletin
is free on request to the Colcium Chloride Ina
stitute, 909 Ring Building, Washington, D.C.
20036.

All-purpase shredder. A new heaVy-duty rotary
shredder is capable of cutting two full rows with
goad overlap between outside rows. The all-
purpase R-84 combines a seven-foot cutting
width and greater structural ruggedness tar fast-
er, mare dependable shredding of grasses, pos-
ture clippings, weeds, light brush, stalks, and
other heavy crop residue with today's more
powerful tractors. For additional information,
write to Farm Implement Division, Brillian Iron
Works, Brillion, Wisconsin 54110.

PROGRAM AIDS

Scooters and motorcycles are here to stay! An
up-ta-date brochure detailing fun and safety of
two-wheel motoring is designed to serve as an
introduction to 0 new and exciting form of
transportation. Scooter and matorcycle awners
represent a new class of riders, which includes
thousands of professional people, executives,
housewives, and college students. The free
baaklet, entitled The Safety and Fun at Twa-
Wheel Motorlng, is being made available
through law-enforcement agencies across the
country. For further information on obtaining
copies, write to Kennett PR Associates, 6642
Sunset Boulevard, l.as Angeles 28, California.

400

 

Keep it clean! Help your community organize a
strong and effective clean-up program of civic
improvement. Get the effective free booklets
offered by the National Clean Up-Paint Up-Fix
Up Bureau. These include #1, The National

Clean Up-Paint Up-Fix Up Bureau—How It
Serves You; #2, Organizing a Clean Up-Paint
Up-Fix Up Campaign; #3, Organizing-Plan-
ning-Financing a Year Round Program; #4, A
Clean Up-Paint Up-Fix Up Program for Youth,
#5, Block Programs and Nelghborhood Activi-
ties; #6, Case Histories of Successful Clean Up
Programs; #7, National Cleanest Town Achieve-
ment Award Contest; #8, Promotion Material
for a Clean Up-Paint Up-Fix Up Campaign.
Write to the bureau at 1500 Rhode Island Ave-
nue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20005.

SAFETY

Safety—now and alwaysl A new National
Safety Council 32-page publication, School
Safety, will be issued four times this year—
September, November, January and March—
and is an effort to meet safety needs. It will
contain teaching units on safety instruction and
visual aids, both easily removed from the
magazine; safety plays, short stories, songs
and games,- feature articles (the safety route
to school, how to handle an accident repeater);
and general safety subiects, such as fire drills.
For a free sample and subscription information
on this magazine, write to National Safety
Council, 425 North Michigan Avenue, Chicago
60611. (Ask for stock Number 411.01.)

Say it on your bumpers! “A Careless Driver is
a Potential Wreck." That is a quote from one

of several bumper and windshield decals and
name plates. The bumper strips are day-glo and

 

are priced according to length and quantity.
You can also suggest your own art work. Com-
plete information can be obtained from Andre
Posters 8. Decals, 151 West 24th Street, Hia-

leah, Florida.

For young workers. It can be dangerous-—-fuel-
ing autos, mounting tires, and servicing batter-
ies. So warns a new publication Service Station
Safety which prescribes rules for doing such
work safely at the nation's two hundred thou-
sand gasoline service stations. The publication,
attractive and well illustrated, was prepared
by the U.S. Department of labor's Bureau of
Labor Standards in consultation with the Ameri-
can Petroleum lnstitute, Gasoline Merchants of
Brooklyn, National Refiners Association, and the
National Safety Council. It includes tips on
proper clothing—“Bow tie or no tie——-long
neckties can get caught in moving machinery”;
fueling—“1f the customer has not turned off the
ignition, politely ask him to do so"; and gen-
eral housekeeping—“Return tools to rack."
Aimed primarily at the young worker, the
booklet can be helpful in counseling teenagers.
Excellent booklet for teenage lounge. Limited
quantities of the booklet may be obtained free
from the U.S. Department of labor, Bureau of

labor Standards, Washington, D.C., 20210.

[OW-COST AIDS

Order these resources and references di-
rectly from source given (enclose remittance).

 

Out of the woods. Every craft program planner
should be delighted with a collection of fifty
rare woods for display and educational pur-

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

RATES: Words in regular type $.15 each
Words in boldface type $.25 each
RATES: Minimum ad accepted $3.00

COPY: Typ

DEADLINES: Copy must be received by
the fifth of the month preceding date of
the issue in which ad is desired.

e—or clearly print—your message and the address to which you wish

replies sent. Underline any words you want to appear in boldface type.

Send copy with remittance to:

 

RECREATION Classified Advertising, 8 West 8th Street, New York, New York 10011.

HELP WANTED

Senior Recreation Lead-
er. Salary, $471-$573
monthly. Full responsibil-
ity at recreation center.
College graduation in rec-
reation or related field or
college graduation plus
1,200 hours full-time re-
sponsible recreation experi-
ence. Send resume of edu-
cation and experience to
Civil Service Department,
City Administration Build-
ing, San Diego, California
92101, before October 20,
1965.

Recreation Superintend-
ent. Salary $954-$1,160
monthly. Equivalent to col-
lege graduation in recrea-
tion or related field plus
four years of increasingly
responsible supervisory and
administrative public rec-
reation experience in a city
of at least 50,000 popula-
tion. Send resume of edu-

cation and experience to
Civil Service Department,
City Administration Build-
ing, San Diego, California
92101, before October 20,
1965.

Assistant Director of
Recreation. Vermont De-
partment of Recreation.
Wanted, qualified, register-
ed, and dedicated recreator
interested in state consulta-
tion service. Applicant
state salary requirements.
Write to Howard Jeffrey,
Vermont Director of Rec-
reation, State Ofiice Build-

ing, Montpelier, Vermont
05602.

Therapists for California

State Hospitals. Oppor-
tunities to plan and con-
duct individual patient

recreation as well as spe-
cial group activities; mod-
ern equipment and facili-
ties. Positions open to col-
lege graduates with major

in recreation or recreation
therapy including super-
vised field work. Salary
range: $510 to $619 a
month. Promotional op-
portunities, attractive em-
ployee benefits. Write:
Medical Personnel Serv-
ices, California State Per-
sonnel Board, 801 Capitol

Mall, Sacramento, Califor-
nia 95814.

The City of Rittman—
Recreation Director.
Salary open. Degree in rec-
reation and/or experience
preferred. Send application
and resume of experience
and education to Willard
K. Laughlin, City Manager,
Rittman, Ohio.

Zoo director for new zoo.
Must have zoology degree
or equivalent and three
years experience. Contact
Superintendent of Recrea-

tion and Park Commission,
Box 458, Baton Rouge,
Louisiana/

The publisher assumes no responsibility for services or items advertised here.

410

   
  

poses. Pieces are 4"-by-9” in size, I
from twenty-one countries (six continen “I
the world. large enough to see detaile '
tures and colors, permitting arranging t
contrasts and new motifs. (Suitable for

use for inlaysl) Each wood named and l '
with the country of origin. lndispensa

arts and crafts shops, teachers, the hOme i
men, et cetera. Packed for safe keepin .'
sturdy attractive box. Priced under $5.0

The same company also offers Wood
new self-rubbing clear finish that needs
ing under it, nothing over it. It will pro
rich hand-rubbed effect without rubbing
ishing. Can be applied with brush, sp
roller.

The above are but two of the many
products listed in a well-illustrated 8
catalog and manual, covering adhesive
ing blocks, books, furniture hardware, t
kits, lamp parts, plans, hand and pow
upholstery supplies, veneers and rare
and sizes, et cetera. We recommend
that you write to Constantine's, 205 .'

chester Road, Bronx, New York 10461.

p

i

Hong Kong lore. The Children's Program
American Friends Service Committee h
published If You Were A Child in Hon
a 32-page picture-story booklet. In its
young readers find games to play, 5
sing, a story to dramatize, riddles to gue
simple recipes to try. There is also info
about school and home life, holiday I
ances, and the kinds of work done b
women, and children of Hong Kong. Pri
two colors and illustrated with phot
and line drawings, this booklet is availa
$.50 from Children's Program, A
Friends Service Committee, 160 Nort
Street, Philadelphia 19102.

Personal personnel record. Every (03)
should have a copy of Personal Empl
Record. That's the title of a record bo
signed specifically to help the (ob see
ganize his approach by conveniently «
available his work history, education
ground, personal data, and reference
and addresses. This 96-page, pocket-si
has an attractive, durable cover and c
an easy-to-follow resume guide. M
women, already employed, as well as s
can effectively use this employment ai
prepared whenever the time comes to fin
or to make a [ob change. Reasonably p
$1.50, postpaid. Order from Diversal P
Box 151-RE, Carnegie, Pennsylvania 15

Master storyteller. Ruth Sawyer has r
four of her best loved stories in a speci
record album for Weston Woods Studi
album, called Ruth Sawyer, Storyteller, i
“The Voyage of the Wee Red Cap,” “T
dler of Ballaghadereen," “The Flea," '
Chinese Fairy Tale." Along with the fou
are excerpts from an interview in w
master storyteller informally comments -
she feels is most important in the art 0
telling and on how she began to collect
Three of the stories she tells in this a|
ones she heard while traveling in lrel
Spain; the fourth, “A Chinese Fairy Tale 2‘
laurence Housman. All are stories with
versal quality that appeals to both child
adults. The album is available for $10.
Weston Woods Studios, Weston, Conne

t'

i

I
i

RECR

  
 
  
  
 
   
    
 
   
     
 
   
    
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
   
 
 
   
   
 
 

' e and local DeveIOpments

: Continued from Page 406
i
' 'urrent projects. ConstructiOn of new lifts for the next
cason accounts for $290,020 of the total, broken down
i ollows: $150,045 for a nineteen hundred-foot double
. . o

rhft at Mount Sunapee State Park in Newbury; $139,-

for an upper mountain T-bar at Cannon Mountain in

conia. Pawtuckaway State Park, encompassing fifty-
; hundred acres and an 803-acre lake in the center of
I

ix

Hampshire’s most densely populated area, will be the
st multiple-use state park in the growing system of
3'-

istoric Franklin Pierce Homestead in Hillsboro is beingr
. 2 red at a cost of $55,000, following the recommendations
1e late Roy Baker, who conducted a thorough architec-
' l investigation in 1954, and the suggestions of William
any of Boston, who designed the restoration of Colonial
I iamsburg, Virginia. Designated as a National Historic
I dmark, the venerable structure will be restored as closely
j ossible to its condition when it was occupied by the
-« ce family in the last century.

nother restoration is the Governor Goodwin mansion
ortsmouth. A total of $172,000 has been eXpended on
'ng the structure to its permanent foundation and re-
'ng it. The 155-year-old mansion, home of New Hamp-
e’s first Civil War governor, will eventually be one of
“state” buildings in the Strawbery Banke restoration

1

ject in Portsmouth.

i" MEXICO. Two new reservoirs near Truth or Con-

inces have been taken over by the State Park and Rec-
iion Commission under contract from the U. S. Bureau
eclamation. Facilities existing and under construction
Ihe sites include boat launching ramps, sanitary and
r systems, (locks, access roads, and shelter buildings.
ing, water skiing, and fishing are year-round sports
e new lakes.

he new Ute Dam, financed by the state, will eventually
. iund the Canadian River near Logan into a thirteen-
long lake creating another excellent water sport rec-
ion area for the state. The State Park and Recreation
nnission has planned an expenditure of $61,000 for
‘ ruction of a service (lock and launching ramp, boat
. parking lot, access roads, and sanitary facilities. The
. has been stocked with several species of game fish.

’ YORK. Establishment of a network of “vest-
- et” parks in New York City to be set up on vacant ten-
it lots in low-income areas of the city was agreed to
\ ayor Robert Wagner. A design for a pilot project in
Iehain was submitted to the mayor by the Council for
*s and Playgrounds, a coordinating organization for
y local neighborhood parks groups from throughout
city. The pilot park would cost an estimated $32,312.
1e mayor also endorsed a plan to establish, as widely
ssible, temporary parks on sites cleared for new con-

eea. 1965

truction, but where the actual erection of buildings waits
two to five years after demolition. These so-called “knock-
down" parks would be given up as soon as building con-
struction was ready to begin. Council leaders urged the
mayor to consider recreation in the city as an “urgent so-
cial necessity.” They asked that the city administration
seek federal anti-poverty funds for recreation purposes.

\VEST VIRGINIA. Fishermen are enjoying a number of
new boat launching ramps, parking areas, and camp sites
at public fishing lakes. Under the Accelerated Public Works
Program. additional facilities for camping and boat launch-
ing have been developed at Plum Orchard Lake in Fayette
County, Sleepy Creek Lake in Berkeley County, and Laurel
Creek Lake in Mingo County. Other improvements have been
carried out at Teter Creek Lake in Barbour County, Con-
away Bun Lake in Tyler County, Castleman Run Lake in
Brooke County, the Blueslone Public Hunting and Fishing
Area in Summers County, and Berwind Lake in McDowell
County.

0 Over thirteen hundred sportsmen attended the eleven pub-
lic meetings held in February and March by the State De-
partment of Natural Resources. These meetings are sched-
uled each year to give West Virginia sportsmen an
opportunity to voice their opinions and recommendations
concerning hunting and fishing regulations. Attendance
at this year’s meetings was up about fifty percent over the
last two or three years, thanks to excellent c00peration from
TV, radio, and newspapers in covering the events.

 

LET THE PRESIDENT OF GAME-TIME HELP YOU

PLAN YOUR “IMAGINEERED” PLAYGROUND!

I ‘ O I

    
  

 

He has had scale models built of all GameTime's Imagineered
playground equipment. Simply send Bob Wormser a dimensioned
sketch of your playground and the apprmomate number and age
range of children that wrll use the area. He Will carelully plan lor
the best utilization of space and equipment. actually construct yOur
playground in miniature. and send you a 16" x 20" photo layout
You. yOur park or school board. Will be able to see exactly how your
proposed playground will look.

This exclusive Game-Time service is available to you tree. Bob
Wormser is only as close as the phone. Call him collect. Area Code
517. 542-2345 or write to ask about free photo-layout playground
planning service.

WRITE FOR 1965 LITERATURE SHOWING EXCITING. NEW
“IMAGINEERED” GAME-TIME PRODUCTS!

GAME-TIME, INC.

JONESVILLE ROAD LlTCHFIELD. MICHIGAN
suasnomnv or SIMPSON MANUFACTURING co.

When writing to our advertisers nleam manlinn Rerunrmx- (1.] I

 

GET
TO VOCALIZE

WITH
NATIDNAL'S DANDY

“SING-ALONG SONG SLIDES”!!

Meetings that begin or end with sing-along sessions
are successful meetings! Watch your gang warm up
fast with a lusty group sing! Send for National's
free catalog of all-time hit songsI available in slide
form for as low as 5°C a tune!

Need a proiector? Let us know . . . we'll save you
real dough! Write today to:

NATIONAL STUDIOS. mc.
42 West 48th Street, N. Y. 36. N. Y.

"L- Only you can
PREVENT FOREST FIRES

 

AAAAAAMMAAAAAAAAAAAAAA¢

“MEAN L©RE

r Y o (runs - Km - LITERATURE
w - surmrs - cosrumrs o rnmrs
I l

6
A L

Address
‘ City
>

Authentic and 'comniete for beginners
VWVYVVYYVYVVVYYVVVVNVYYVY

and experts. Shipped immediately.
412

AD

Since I9271Post: New York City
Museum: Monroe. N. Y.

PLUME TRADING CO.

Dept. 230, Box 585, Monroe, N.Y.
Yours FREE, the finest refr'o'; and

f‘.

Name

YVVYVVVYVVVVVVVVVVV

State

 

AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA“

Br FOR THE ILL €55 HANDICAPPE "

>l‘ During the past several years, agen-
cies in the Longview-Kelso area in the
state of Washington have cooperatively
sponsored a growing recreation program
for mentally retarded and physically
handicapped children. A swimming pro-
gram for handicapped children was
begun by the Longview YMCA about
ten years ago. This was followed in July
1964' with the pilot day-camp program,
Camp Goodtimes, sponsored jointly by
the YMCA and other agencies.

The Coordinating Council for Recrea-
tion for the Handicapped of the Long-
view YMCA and the Cowlitz Valley
Chapter of the Washington Association
for Retarded Children felt the recreation
and socializing values of Camp Good-
times and the established swimming
program should be expanded to provide
a year-round recreation program. Con-
sequently, in the fall of 1964, the Good-
times Club was organized. To date re-
sults have been excellent. Over forty
children are enrolled in the program.
Since this is an experimental program,
children are accepted who are enrolled
in special school classes. A Tri-Hi-Y
Club of high-school junior girls assist
with the program as a service project.
In addition, boys from two Hi-Y Clubs,
Boy Scouts, and other interested indi-
viduals assist with the activity periods.

+ The recreation programs scheduled
for the youth of Mount Vernon, New
York, whether sponsored by the recrea-
tion department or some other agency,
share a goal of trying to serve the most
children possible, reports the Mount
Vernon Daily Argus. The newspaper
points out that the attitude toward re-
tarded children has changed dramati-
cally over the past twenty years. Once
they were thought of as unfortunates
who should be excluded from the gen-
eral activities of society, and recreation
in particular. Today they are treated
differently; they are considered people.,
The recreation program in Mount Ver-
non reflects the contemporary thinking
in offering a year-round program of
activity for retarded children. Starting
last summer a three-day-a-week play-
ground program was sponsored by the
recreation department under Commis-
sioner John Branca. It was the first of

DR. THOMPSON is director of the Na-
tional Recreation A ssociation’s Consult-
ing Service on Recreation for the Ill and

Handicapped.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  

Morton Thompson,

its type in Westchester County. I
winter, the group meets on Thu
nights at the recreation department
munlty center.

*l‘ According to the Volunteer S
Photographers Annual Report,
student patients participated in t
three hospital or institutional pro
in New York and New Jersey.
were serviced by 111 volunteers,
gave a total of 6,713 teaching hou
New York’s Long Island area, t
three volunteers have been functi
in seven hospitals.

+ Seventy-five to eighty-five p
of the mentally retarded can be re
itated with proper training. The
a recently perfected method, ch'
with an IQ of less than 50 can be t
to read. Using the same method,
educable children can be taught t
twice as fast. Dr. Samuel Krick .
University of Illinois is making
headway in raising the IQ of ch'
and has proved that the IQ of ei
year-old children could be raised
72 to 89 by giving them special in
tion one hour a day, five days a
for a year.

+ A 25 percent increase in pro
of vocational training for handic
children is revealed in the new e
of the Directory for Exceptional i
ren. The fifth edition of the dir
describes programs and policies 0
three thousand facilities in the L
States providing special educatio
therapy for children who are phy
handicapped, mentally retarded,
tionally disturbed, or socially
justed. It also notes continuance i
pronounced trend toward non-re
day programs for exceptional chi

Day schools and clinics now
prise two-thirds of the total fa
for handicapped children. Durin
last twelve years, six times mor
centers than resident facilities
been established for physically
capped youth. Of 135 new pro
described in this edition, nearly
are day offerings for mentally ret
children. Among state-sponsore
grams for the mentally re
founded since 1950, day centers
outnumbered resident institutio
more than two to one.

The 704-page directory is ava
for $7.00 from Porter Sargen
Beacon Street, Boston 02108.

lie
I n?
a

Ream

   
   
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
   
  
    
   
  
     
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 

V.I.T.’s

Continued from Page 396

)t whatsoever), the department

T makes a personal visit.

I ) babysitter names are given to
' pective employers until they have
screened. Placement is done by
ion except when special problems
I. am a particular babysitter or when
ospective employer requests a cer-
: sitter. It might be of interest to
' here that babysitters have been
red fifteen minutes, al-
gh this is the exception and not
rule. Requests usually come from
o forty-eight hours before the time
ed. After the initial job for a par-
ar family, the babysitters will, as
lule, be contacted directly for future
4 As a result, the recreation de-
nent is not plagued by as many
1e calls as one might eXpect.

1 the first job for a family, the
r takes an information pad to be
out by the employer. The top
of this pad is permanent infor-
ion, such as parents’ and baby’s
, address, phone number. It then
s on to state, “If you want help, take
Isy, don’t worry” also “In case of
,l first, get baby out of house; sec-
call the fire department” (with
)ace for the telephone number),
it does the same in case the baby
ioking or is hurt and it looks bad.
11 the sheets following are for tem-
ry information for that particular

within

such as where the parents will be,
ial instruction, et cetera.

_ter a year of operation, there is
,iting list for a new training session.
’ddition, the local office of the Flor-
State Employment Agency has of-
,l desk space and a telephone for a
th Employment Department where
council can handle youth employ-
t themselves and in all areas.

1e program has been highly sue-
ul. and there have been many fa-
ble comments concerning it, in ad-
11 to letters of inquiries from vari-
sections of the country as a result

The

burg babysitters have made it pos-

ssociated Press news stories.

. for many moms and dads to pur-
their particular recreation needs
interests, whether it be in the Lee..-

onlsn. 1965

When writina tn mn- 2rlvortianq nine-:9, mpntinn RFCREATION.

burg Recreation Department activities
or be it in one of the many other forms
of recreation available. Babysitting is
a leisure-time activity for those teen-

START
Q Li. 

S KAT ilN G

agers involved, and, through “Baby-
sitting and Leesburg Way,” they have
been directed into a rewarding and
profitable leisure-time activity—DAVID
W. CARMOLLI, Superintendent of Rec-
reation, Leesburg, Florida.

THE LONERS
BY 1966 HALF of America’s 195,000,-

000 citizens will be under the age
of twenty-five. Every large city will
be struggling to solve the problems con-
nected with this age group, particularly

 

with those teenagers whose poor choice

of free-time activities leads to delin- Roller Skating is the one sport in

which all your students can partic-
ipate. It handles large groups of
boys and girls quickly and easily,
and does not require a change of
clothes. The equipment is rela-
tively inexpensive. Little supervi-
sion is needed. That's why more
and more schools are making roller
skating a definite part of their
physical education and recreation
programs.

quency. As a result of the recent prob-
ing news stories of Lee Oswald and his
tragedy, many people have become
acutely aware of the psychological
problems of youth.

The Public Recreation Department
in Long Beach, California, knows that
by providing free or low-cost activities
for the teens, one important problem
is partially solved, for youih’s needs
are great but earning power is small.
With this in mind, the department fur-
nishes some craft materials free and
some at cost; there is a charge of
twenty-five cents at the pools and fifty
cents for youth-club memberships.
Most other activities are free.

One complication which plagues
large cities and is not so easily solved
is that of the “loner” who is just the

opposite of the youth who joins, par-

 

ticipates, and contributes. The “lon-
ers,” mostly boys, are in the minority.

NEW RUBBER-PLASTIC WHEELS ARE
KIND T0 GYM FLOORS These new

Duryte rubber-plastic wheels outwear
others and are guaranteed not to

mar or scratch the floors. “Chicago” has a
skate designed for any type of floor
surface or finish. Write today for free
details on roller skating programs

and skating equipment.

They are alone and without friends, as

Lee Oswald was. They do not attend
the organized centers, but go about in
small groups forming gangs which can
easily (lrift into trouble. Among these
“loners” are also some youth whose
lives are just too well ordered and
over directed and who feel the need
of a little danger and excitement.
There is no easy answer to this prob-
lem. A few of the largest cities in the
United States have professional “rov-
ing” reoreation workers, who some-

times carry a transistor radio tuned to

 

the latest teenage music. They dress
like the “guys” on the corner, hang

4490-J West lake, Chicago 24, III.
413

 

FOLLOW SMOKEY’S ABO’S

 

Always break
matches in two!

 

Be sure fires

are out cold!

./
//

r
/,

map

  

Crush all
smokes—dead!

Nine out of every ten

forest fires are caused by
man. Whereveryou are, be

very careful with matches,
smokes and all fires.

PLEASE!

Only ygg can

PREVENT .
FOREST FIRES

Published as a public service in coop-
eration with The Advertising Council.

 

4714

around and make friends. Later these
boys are encouraged to be on the team
or participate in a special event. Each
year a few lives may be completely
changed by this program. It has not
been shown, however, that Long Beach
needs this, for it appears to be revers-
ing the national delinquency trend. L0-
cal oflicials believe this comes as a
result of the fine cooperation between
local youth-serving agencies, law, pro-
bation, schools, and recreation.

It has been written that “given skills,
education, and enough background in
order to feel secure among many
choices, most youth will choose their
leisure activities wisely.” This then
would indicate that the home, school,
and community working together must
give skills, education, and background
to help young people prepare for the
best use of their increasing free time.
Recent statistics show that approxi-
mately sixty percent of our youth are
making good choices in their time off,
while perhaps about five percent are
in trouble. The remaining thirty-five
percent, “in-betweeners,” are of spe-
cial concern as they are the ones who
can be influenced in either direction.
One of recreation’s biggest problems
is that of making programs attractive,
exciting, and adventuresome enough to
appeal to all youth.

THE Long Beach Recreation Depart-
ment offers a wide choice of ac-
tivities. Participation in this program
gives teenagers a chance to enjoy a
keep physi-

cally fit, and to have an active social

cultural program, to
life. No wallflowers nor loneliness here.
Several cultural opportunities of in-
terest to both boys and girls are crafts,
including woodcrafts; the Junior The-
atre drama group open only to teen-
agers, which presents four full-length
royalty plays a year; and the Youth

Talent Showcase, a group of two hun-i

dred nonprofessional teenage enter-
tainers (membership through tryouts)
which performs free for clubs and civic
affairs.

To keep youngsters physically fit
and use up excess energy, the depart-
ment provides clubs, instruction, play,
and some leagues in a number of
sports. These include badminton, base-
ball, basketball, Hag football, gymnas-

.__values received in the youngsters’

tics, Junior Olympics (boys’ tract
skiing with both dry-land instruct
and water-ski facilities, a powder-f
derby (girls’ track), softball, table If:

nis, tennis, and volleyball.

 

O I I O I I I
Aquatlc act1v1t1es at s1x sw1mm.

pools and three still-water beaches?“
this age group are life-saving, divi'
synchronized and competitive s ll
ming. Sailing techniques are stu

at Alamitos Bay by the sailing clu

 
   
 
  
   
  
   
   
  
   
    
  
  
  
   
   
  
   
   
  
   
   
  

_____ _ .'—A

Teenage co-recreation activitie
the social type show the highest at
The Friday Nighter gr '

which feature social dancing, me «

ance.

every junior high-school in the
during the school year. Fortun
the Long Beach recreation plan i
ordinated, giving young people
fullest use of school and park facil
There are also live youth clubs
eight thousand members, four of u
have their own buildings adjace
the high schools, with a new club 11
construction. Memberships are
able to high-school-age youth only.
sides having wholesome fun,
clubs contribute to charity. For
ample, last year each held sp
dances raising over a thousand d
in cash and more than three thou
cans of food.

Recreation leaders point out the

time will carry over into other p
of theirrlives. One of the prob
with today’s adults is that many
their worth is measured by the m
they earn and spend, whereas

really measured by the way they 5
their time both on, and of? the job.
community that provides its youth
an opportunity to learn these t
early in life will reap the benefits 1
for, as tomorrow’s adults, they’
much better than their parents. I
dition to landing on the moon
Mars, and straightening out the i
national mess here on earth, it is h
they will solve the problem of
teenage “loner” by inventing 501
citing new activities with a b
“safe” danger and won’t that be a
twist?—VIRCINIA CLARK, Supervis
Drama, Music and Public I nforr
for the Long Beach, California, R
ation Commission. This materia
peared in the Long Beach Herald

ican.

RECRE:

  
   
  
  
   
   
   
    
 
 
 
  
     
   
    
   
 
   
 
  
   
    
  
 
   
 
   
    
   
  

i
I
I

ion Control

~ EttY SERIOUS problem of erosion of
the banks of the chain of lakes
_ one side of Roeding Park in
i to, California, is slowly but surely
‘ solved. A four-year program of
lling rock walls along the bank of
kes IS tlow more than halfway to
letion. After the installation of
lock walls and the application of
nite finish, the short areas were
-filled, brought up to grade, and
nted to maintain the park appear-
In addition, the fifteen-foot drain
‘. from the new main roadway was
: tded into the second lake to im-
_ - the drainage of the main roadway
; 'ncrease storage. Upon completion
. 1e work outlined above, the lakes
 thoroughly cleaned and refilled.
' the lakes were filled they were
. id with carp, bluegill, and catfish,
darm-water fish transferred from
s Washington. The lakes are stocked
is fashion each spring to provide
A g Opportunities for boys and girls
e remainder of the year.
became necessary to deepen all of
_ ells in Roeding Park and to in-
the capacity of the pumps in or-
0 provide adequate water for irri-
n purposes in the park. This pro-
' more than adequate supply of
which vastly simplified the irri-
' n and improved appearances of the
llowever, the deepenmg of the
. created a very definite sand prob-
bnd it became necessary to install a
sand trap on the water main serv-
e zoo restrooms and concession
s. In addition, to deepen the
wells, a twelve-foot water well was
'- in the shop area and a thirty
ower pump installed to provide
. equate supply of water for sani-
urposes, eliminating the necessity
ving the big irrigation pumps cut
maintain water service—From
Annual Report, Fresno Parks and
cation Department.

ture Control

E PROBLEM of excessive moisture,
long a deterrent to the use of
tical ceilings in natatoriums,
r rooms. and other high humidity
ties inay finally be licked thanks to
' product developed by the Arm-
_ Cork Company. This is an en-
« new type of acoustical material

man, 1965

NCERNING UPKEEP

which Armstrong claims has the same
degree of acoustical efliciency as con-
ventional products, but is totally un-
affected by moisture, even when sub-
merged in water.

Known as Armstrong Ceramaguanl,
the new product is a ceramic-type ma-
terial with a totally inert composition
that does not expand, contract, or weak-
en under prolonged exposure to high
humidity conditions. The product also
has exceptional spanning strength, far
above that of conventional acoustical
panels, and, as a result, is almost one
hundred percent sag-proof when in-
stalled in an exposed grid suspension
system.

According to Armstrong, most acous-
tical ceiling products today withstand
normal humidity conditions indefinite-
ly without appreciable dimensional
change, but, when installed in areas
where the prevailing humidity is high,
they often absorb excessive moisture
from the air and eventually start to
“cup” or “sag,” creating an uneven

 

levery litter bit hurts

 

Susan Spotless says:

KEEP AMERICA
BEAUTIFUL

ceiling surface. Cerameguard, how-
ever, is completely unaffected by mois-
ture absorption. Tests show that the
material remains dimensionally stable
even after three weeks submersion in a
strong chlorine-water solution.

The new material has also been sub-
jected to extensive freezing and thaw-
ing in temperatures ranging from 73”
to 25' below zero without adverse re-
sults, the company says. This means
it is suitable for use in outdoor amphi-
theaters, parking garages, and similar
installations where sound absorptive
materials were previously impractical.
Ceramaguard offers unusual Spanning
strength, many times greater than that
of conventional acoustical panels.
Whereas conventional materials might
tend to sag if produced in sizes larger
than 2"by-4', Ceramaguard could con-
ceivably be installed in panel sizes up
to 21/;_'-by-5’ without adverse effects.
This would substantially reduce the
amount of metal needed to suspend the
ceiling, and consequently cut ceiling
costs.

Initially, however, the new material
will be offered only in 2’-by-2’ and
2'-by-4' units to accommodate standard
grid suspension systems. Both panels
feature an attractive fissured surface
design and"~c01ne with a special back
coating that improves sound attenua-
tion and minimizes “breathing”-—the
passage of dirt-laden air up through
the material. Ceramaguard also features
a new acrylic paint finish that gives the
material exceptional grease resistance,
washability, and whiteness. For further
information about Ceramaguard. write
to the Armstrong Information Service.
Lancaster, Pennsylvania 17604.

Sign Control

IN ONE economical move. the Metro-
politan Park District in Akron, Ohio.
cleared some fallen timbers and con-
verted the better part of them into over
two hundred neat new signs, flashing
yellow letters on a rustic brown back-
ground. The signshmore are being
made—are replacing deteriorating pre-
(leccssors, and. in some instances. serv-
ing as newly needed pointers to direct
the public. They range from ()lé-inch-
square directional signs to fonr-by-five-
foot informational boards.

The fallen wood first was taken to a
lumber yard and milled. Then, as time
permitted, park crews cut the lumber to
size and shape. stenciled and routed out
the letters, treated the wood with a pre-
servative. and finally painted it. The
signs being replaced are up to ten years
old. The “new look" in park signs will
continue popping up as the need for
them arises and parklnen have time to
produce the signs.

415

 

NEW PUBLICATIONS

 

A Rating System to Improve Job Per-
formance. Public Personnel Associa-
tion, 1313 East 60th Street, Chicago
60637. Pp. 12. Paper, $2.00. 1965.

FFICIALS in San Diego, California,
became dissatisfied with the con-
ventional personnel rating form. A
study of the system that they had been
using revealed too many purposes and
that the man-to-man comparisons in-
vited by numerical scores was a source
of considerable dissatisfaction. Out of
their study came the decision that a
new plan would be designed for the sole
purpose of helping supervisors to coun-
sel their subordinates on ways to
strengthen job performance. Under the
new plan, the numerical ratings were
replaced by a “global” evaluation by
the supervisor. Moreover, supervisors
are now called upon to record specific
instances of outstanding work perform-
ance and shortcomings and are expect-
ed to specify concrete ways whereby
employees can overcome their defi-
ciencies. The new plan requires that
supervisors use the reports as a basis
for private face-to-face counseling of
their staff personnel. Preparation for
the evaluation includes nine things to
do before a rating is made.
Suggestions for conducting the eval-
uation interview give twenty-three
items, or factors, plus nine additional
ones for supervisors on a checklist to
be rated with criteria. The criteria in-
clude: l—Satisfactory; 2——Requires
improvement; 3—Meets standards;
4«—Exceeds standards. These factors
are defined together with guides for
their use. The San Diego plan repre-
sents a willingness to overhaul a time-
worn personnel mechanism when analy-
sis shows its inadequacies, and to ex-
periment with fresh concepts and new
methods. The plan has been installed
in the city school system and is current-
ly undergoing a trial. If this new sys-
tem proves to be satisfactory, it will
become permanent. Other SPA reports
are listed in this publication.—W. C.
Sutherland, Director, National Recrea-

tion and Park Association Recreation
Personnel Service.

Music Activities for Retarded Chil-
dren, David L. Ginglend and Winifred
E. Stiles. Abingdon Press, 201 Eighth
Avenue South, Nashville 3, Tennessee.

Pd. 40. Spiralbound, $3.50.

f I ‘HE SELECTIONS in the book are suit-
able for trainable retardates of all
ages and for eclucable retardates to

110

about twelve years of age. The level of
mental age to which this material would
appeal to runs from three to eight years.
The music is illustrated and the songs
provide for a variety of participation
by the children including singing, clap-
ping hands, using instruments, and
many other types of fundamental ac-
tivities. A chapter is devoted to the use
of other musical instruments such as
the record player, autoharp, and per-
cussion instruments. A list of books,
recordings, and instruments are in-
cluded under supplementary materials,
This excellent book is a welcome addi-
tion to resource materials on recreation
for the mentally retarded and was de-
signed to provide guidance and re-
source materials in music for the special
class teacher, recreation leader or vol-
unteer working with the mentally re-
tarded—Morton Thompson. Ed.D.,
National Recreation and Park Associa-
tion Consulting Service on Recreation

for the Ill and Handicapped.

Rural Youth in a Changing Environ-
ment. National Committee for Chil-
dren and Youth, 1145 19th Street,
N.W., Washington, D.C. 20036. Pp.
344. Paper, $2.50 (plus 25¢ post-
age). 1965.

THE PROBLEMS of preparing rural
youth to adjust and compete in a
modern, essentially urban society is
basic to many of the issues faced by
cities, by industry, 'by educational in-
stitutions, and by government. The Na-
tional Conference on Rural Youth,
sponsored by the National Committee
For Children and Youth, was held at
Oklahoma State University in Septem-
ber 1963 and drew 520 participants
from forty-eight states, the Virgin Is-
lands, and several foreign countries.
This conference, chaired by Winthrop
Rockefeller, included many speeches,
workshOps, and discussions. Among the
most useful to recreation leaders and
executives is an analysis by Dr. William
Osborne, a “Study of the Problems, At-
titudes and Aspirations of Rural
Youth,” prepared for the Rockefeller
Brothers Fund in 1963 by Elmo ROper.
A summary is included in the report.
Dr. Paul A. Miller, president of West
Virginia University, gave one of the
finest speeches, entitled “Guidelines and
New Meanings.” It will reward careful
study. Background papers for this con-
ference, under the title of Rural Youth
in Crisis, will be available shortly. They
are being published by the U.S. Depart-

ment of Health, Education, and 3‘
fare.-—-V.M. l

Instant Water Skiing, Ralph :.
Grosset & Dunlap, 1107 Broad
New York 10010. Pp. 94. $2.95.

F YOU are a swimmer, you ou

be able to water ski almost im
ately after consulting this guide.
start by learning to put on the ski ,
learning to get up on them befor
leave dry land. Photos of attr
skiers will show you how to do
about five minutes. Next, you try
the water——with a towboat atta ,
If you do insist on falling after 31
you are advised to “do it with styl
and come up with a smile.”

An excellent list of Do’s and I
is included, as well as instructio
trick skiing, and skiing without sk
was demonstrated to National R
tion Congress delegates last ye
Florida). This guidebook shoul
especially helpful to persons wh
learning to instruct in water skiin
cause of its instruction sequences,
anyone in charge of a waterfro
to an accomplished skier who wa .
learn ski tricks. The pictures, 2
them, show you “everything in

book.”

Plastics as an Art Form, Thel
Newman. Chilton Books, East
ington Square, Philadelphia 1
Pp. 338, illustrated. $11.00.

HIS IS probably the only can

book on working in plastic. l
gins with the history of plastics .'
art medium and describes fully th
ferent stages and types of plastic
It is or will be considered a tex
on plastics. The photographs are
and white with several pages of
and the text is written clearly and
cisely. This is a book pointed t
the craftsman and written by an e
craftsman and artist, who is an a
ity on the subject.

Because of the dangers involv
working with plastics, I doubt
much if it is a book for recre
workers as the work must be do
an area where there is an exha
ventilation hood and demands c
precautions when using the mat
needed. However, this is a won
book for the trained art or craft‘
son and I could hardly keep my
off itl—M. B. Cummings, Arts
Crafts Specialist.

RECRE

   
 
   
   
 
   
 
  
  
  
   
   
 
    
 
   
   
 
   
 
  
 
   
    
   
   
  
    
 
 
 

ART S AND CRAFTS

IAN CRAFTING. Sylvia W. llowarrl.
'ng Publishing Company, 419 Park
116 South, New York 10016. Pp.
ustraterl. $3.95. This newly re-
l)0(1l< has many new and varied
its. Most are easy to do, requir-
inexpensive equipment and scrap
rials. Using tin shears with corn-
l leverage and a serrated blade
- supervision. children can safely
on the simpler projects. The
includes innumerable designs and
for wall decorations well illustrat-
°th diagrams. patterns and photo-
is. The best book on tin-can craft-
rat has come to our attention.

‘it Mscur’: AND How TO USE IT,

erl Anderson. Sterling Publishing
ran-v, 419 Park Avenue South, New
10016. Pp. 96, illustrated. $3.95.

r-milché has been revolutionized
e introduction of resin epoxy as a
.e finish which means many utili-
1 projects can he done, ones that
land much hard use. The hook
esses from elementary to advanced
cts. from simple howls to a whole
set and table.

. YOUR OWN MOBILES, ’1'. M.
ger. Sterling Publishing, 419
Avenue South, New York 10016.
6, illustrated. $2.95. (Originally

'shed in German, translated by
' Kuttner). Of coarse. making mo-
isn’t new. Alexander Calder in-
rced us to this art form. as we are
familiar with it, around 1931 when
.- hibited his first mobile in Paris.
5 and craftsmen. both profession-

rd recreational. have been fasci-
by them ever since. Miss Scheg-
book covers composition. hal-
llat geometrical shapes. three-
isional shapes. procedures. mate-
suggestions of thread. paint. metal,
and tools. Materials include wood-
for birds, nulrhells for sailboat
. corks for bird bodies, beechnuts
irds. and blown-out eggs for birds.

prune FOR BEGINNFZRS, Maria and
. ' Di Valentin. Sterling Publishing,
Park Avenue South, New York
). Pp. 160, illustrated. $3.95.
c you ever watched children mak-
uudpies or sand castles? You must
done both yourself,” so begins
)ture for Beginners, a detailed in-
ion hook that has side-hy-side
graphs showing each step in the
ss of modeling in clay, then mak-
' mould and casting in plaster. The
no is easy to follow, covers the use
(3 armature, familiarity with the
- of bones and muscles. covering
e sculptor’s basic skills—lean
ott. RECREATION Magazine Sta/I.

.a. 1965

Glamour Magazine Party

 

BOOKS AND PAMPHLETS RECEIVED

 

AGING

Action for Older Amerlcons 1964 Annual Report
ot_the President's Council on Aglng. U.S. Gav't
giintsirag) Office, Washington, D.C. 20402. Pp.

Developments In Aging 1963 and 1964. U.S.
Gov't Printing Office, Washington, D.C. 20402.
Pp. 86. $.25.

New Thoughts on Old Age Robert Kostenbaurn.
Springer Publ.. 44 E. 23ml St., New York 10010.
Pp. 333. $7.50.

You, The Law And Retirement. U.S. Gov't Printing
Office, Washington, D.C. 20402. Pp. 36. $.25.

GAMES AND HOBBIES

ABC of Contract Bridge The, Ben Cohen and
Rhoda Borrow. A. S. ornes 11 E. 36th St.,
New York 10016. Pp. 287. $3.00.

Art of the Middle Game, The (Chess), Paul Keres
and Alexander Kotov. Penguin Books, 3300
Clipper Mill Rd.. Baltimore, Md. 21211. Pp.
238. Paper, $1.25.

Biddina at Bridge, Norman Squire. Penguin Books,
53 W. 43rd St., New York 10036. Pp. 191.
Paper, $.95.

Children's Games. Pieter Brueghel. Toplinlger
Publ., 119 W. 57th St., New York 10019. -
paged. $2.50.

Decorative Stitcherv, Marlon May. Sunset Books,
Menlo Park, Calif. Pp. 80. Paper, $1.95.

Game of the Seven Gaafs, The, H. Blonc and
Ami. Crown Publ., 419 Park Ave. 5., New Yark
10016. Unooged. Paper, $1.00.

Games and Pussies for Famiiv Lelsure, E. Richard
Churchill and Edward H. Bloir. Abinodon Press,
Nashville 2, Tenn. Pp. 80. Paper, $.75.

Manic in Your Pockets. Bill Severn. David Mc-
Kay, 119 W. 40th St., New York 10018. Pp.
146. $3.50.

Moaic Shows You Can Give. Bill Severn. David
McKay, 119 W. 40th St., New York 10018. Pp.
212. $4.25.

New Troos in the Chess Opening. Al Horowitz.
Arco Publ.. 219 Park Ave. 5., New York 1003.
Pp. 181. $3.95.

Official Encyclopedia of Bridge. The, Richard L.
Frey and Alan F. Truscott. Crown Publ.. 419
Park Ave. 5., New York 10016. Pp. 691. $10.00.

Photoaroahy and the American Scene. Robert
Taft. Dover Publ.. 180 Vorick St., New Yark
10014. Pp. 546. $3.00.

Paiyaminoes, Solomon W. Golomb. Charles Scrib-
nesz Sons. 597 5th Ave., New YOrk 10017.
Pp. 182. $5.95.

Pun Fun, Ennis Rees. AbeIOrd-Schumon. 6 W. 57th
St., New York 10019. Pp. 124. $3.25.

Radio Amateur’s Handbook, The, American Ra-
gzoogeloy League, Newington, Cann. Pp. 700.

Recreations in the Theory of Numbers—The
Queen of Mathematics Entertains, Albert H.
Feller. Dover Publ., 180 Varick St., New York
10014. Pp. 349. Paper, $2.00.

Scorne on Cords, John Scarne. Crown Publ.. 419

Park Ave. 5., New Yark 10016. Pp. 435. $4.95.

Strings on Your Fingers: How to Make String

Figures, Harry and Elizabeth Hellman. Wm.
Morrow, 425 Park Ave. 5., New York 10016.
Pp. 48. $2.75.

Student-Mode and Teacher-Mode Pictures (Basic

Photoorophvi, Marvin E. Duncan and James
E. Parker. Edwards Brothers, 2500 S. State St.,
Ann ArbOr, Mich. Pp. 45. Paper, $1.50.

Teenooe Chess Book, The, Reuben Flne. David

McKov. 119 W. 40th St., New Yark 10018. Pp.
144. $3.75.

Underwater Photography, Derek Townsend. Sport-

shelt, PO. Box 634, New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp.
160. $5.75.

HOLIDAYS AND SPECIAL EVENTS
Book of Festival Holidays, The, Marguerite lckis.

Dodd, Mead. 432 Park Ave. 5., New Yark
10016. Pp. 178. $3.75.

Book, The, Eleanor
Elliott. Doubleday. 2'” Park Ave., New York
10017. Pp. 302. $4.95.

Holidays: Arbor Day, Aileen Fisher; Passover,

Norma Simon; Flag Day, Dorothy Les Tina;
Mother’s Day, Mary Kay Phelon,‘ St. Voien-
tine's Day, Clyde Robert Bullo. Thos. Y. Cro-
well, 201 Park Ave. 5., New York 10003. Un-
oaged. $2.95 each.

Light of Christmas, The, Frances Branlano, Edi-

tar. E. P. Button, 201 Park Ave. 5., New York
10003. Pp. 319. $5.95.

Plonnlnq Women's Banquets, Maroaret Wise.

Moodv Press 820 N. LaSalle St., Chicago
60610. Pp. 95. Spiralbound, $1.35.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 
   
     
  

a match
grade

nHeata
reasonable
price

Here is an intermediate target rifle
by Anschutz, builders of the Match
54 rifle that was used by all the win-
ners in the smallbore shooting
events at the Tokyo Olympics.

The 64 Savage/Anschutz has spe-
cial features that add up to X-ring
accuracy: a satin smooth single-shot
action; trigger adjustable for.pull,
creep and backlash; a precrsion
rifled and hand-lapped medium
heavy barrel. Target stock has
raised cheek-piece, deeply fluted
comb, checkered contour pistol grip.
Beavertail fore-end has long rail
with instantly adjustable sliding
swivel; adjustable rubber butt plate.

Model 64 costs only $79.50: 64-3
complete with Redfield Olympic
sights as shown, only 5105. Prices
subject to change. For free catalog
write: Savage Arms, Westlield 220,
Mass. 01085. (A division of Emhart
Corporation. Savage, Anschutz and
the Indian head Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.)

Saving 

41 7

So me Christian Festivals,

Publ., 30 E. 74th St., New York 10021. Pp. 194.
$4.00.

Ill. AND HANDICAPPED

Arts and Cratts for Retarded Children, Helen L.
Hunter, Agatha Whelon Wahl ond Rose lovin
Willioms. Know Publ., Box 260, Woll St. Sto—
iS‘Bion, New York 10005. Pp. 54. Spirolbound,

2.95. -

Concepts in Rehabilitation of the Handicapped,
Frank H. Krusen, M.D., W. B. Sounders, 218 W.
Woagington Sq., Philodelphio 5. Pp. 69. Paper,
$1. .

Crafts for Retarded, William C. McNeice and Ken-
neth R. Benson. McKnight ond McKnight,
Bloomington, Ill. Pp. 134. $5.95.

Gifts They Bring, The, Pearl S. Buck and Gweneth

Zorfoss. John Day, 200 Modison Ave., New
York 10036. Pp. 156. $4.50.

Music Activities for Retarded Children, David R.
Ginglend ond Winifred E. Stiles. Abingdon

Press, 201 8th Ave. 5., Noshville 3, Tenn. Pp.
140. Spirolbound, $3.50.

Physiotherapy as a Career, Ursulo Vidler. Sport-

shelf, Box 634, New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 127.
$4.00.

Therapy by Design, Lawrence R. Good, Saul M.
Siegel and Alfred Poul Boy. Charles C. Thom~

05, 301-327 E. Lowrence Ave., Springfield,
Ill. Pp. 193. $10.00.

NATURE, OUTDOORS

Adventure in My Garden, Helen M. Fox. Crown

Publ., 419 Pork Ave. S., New York 10016.
Pp. 167. $4.95.

Big Game Animals, The Compoct Book of Roy
OVIngton, Editor. J. Lowell Prott, 15 E. 48th St.,
New York 10017. Pp. 63. Paper, $.75.

Birds of Cape Cod, Massachusetts, The, Norman

P. Hill, MD. Wm. Morrow, 425 Pork Ave. 5..
New York 10016. Pp. 364. $6.00.

Book of EXpert Sailing, Bill Robinson. Chorles

Scribner's Sons, 597 5th Ave., New York 10017.
Pp. 148. $6.50.

Build Your Own Greenhouse, Horry lbbotson.

Sportshelf, P.O. Box 634, New Rochelle, N. Y.
Pp. 92. $1.50.

Cauntryman's Journal, August Derleth. Meredith

Press, 60 E. 42nd St., New York 10017. Pp. 215.
$5.95.

Crab That Crawled Out of the Past, The, Lorus

ond Morgery Milne. Atheneum Publ., 162 E.
38th St., New York 10016. Pp. 84. $3.50.

Enjoying Life as a Sportsman's Wife, Jean C.
Vermes. Stockpole Books, Harrisburg, Po.
17105. PD. 192. $4.95.

Everyday Miracle (Animals), Gustov Eckstein.

Horper and Row, 49 E. 33 d St., N
10016. Pp. 146. $3.50. r ew York

Garden Propagation, W. H. Lewis. Sportshelf, P.O.
Box 634, New Rochelle, N. Y. Pp. 172. $5.95.

Gardens Around the World, Elizobeth Schuler.

Harry N. Abroms, 6 W. 57th St., New York
10019. Pp. 257. $17.50.

Geranium Growing, H. G. Withom
shelf P.O. Box 634,
96. $1.50.

Getting Out of Outdoor Trouble, W. K. Merrill.
Stockpole Books, Cameran Cr Kelker Sts., Hor-
risburg, Pa. 17105. Pp. 96. $2.95.

Gull's Way, The, Louis Dorling. Wm. Morrow, 425
Pork Ave. S., New York 10016. Pp. 96. $6.50.

Honker, the Story of a Wild Goose, Robert M. Mc-

Clung. Wm. Morrow, 425 Po k A . S. N
York 10016. Pp. 64. $2.75. r ve ' ew

Happier Family Camping, George 5. Wells. Stock-

pole Books, Comeron Cr Kelker Sts., Horrisburg,
Pa. Pp. 96. $2.95.

How to Buildand Operate Private Family Camp—
grounds, Bill Riviere. Kolmboch Publ., 1027 N.
7th St., Milwoukee, Wisc. Pp. 50. Paper $2 00.

Land and Wildlife of North America, The, Peter
Forb ond the Editors of Life. Time Inc., Rocke-
feller Center, New York 10020. Pp. 200. $3.95.

Leader's Guide to Nature—Oriented Activities, A

Betty van der Smissen ond Oswald H. Goerin
Iowa State University Press, Ames.
Spirolbaund, $2.95.

Let's Get Turtles, Millicent E. Selsom and Arnold

Lobel. Horper and Row, 49 E. 33rd St., Ne
York 10016. Pp. 63. $1.95.* w

Life Histories of North American Nuthatcites,
Wrens, Thrashers, and Their Allies, Arthur
Clevelond Bent. Dover Publ., 180 Varick St.,
New York 10014. Pp. 475. Paper, $2.75.

Lion Twins, The, Elizobeth Loing Stewart. Ath-

eneum Publishers, 162 E. 38th St., New York
10016. Unpoged. $2.74.

Meet the Reptiles, C. H. Keeling. Fronklin Watts,

575 Lexin ton Ave., New York 10022. P . 158.
$3.95. 9 p

Modern Caravanning, Ralph L. Lee. Sportshelf,

r13.105.080x 634, New Rochelle, N. Y. Pp. 92.

418

I

9
Pp. 210.

Elfrida ViDont. Roy

Wonders of an Oceanarium, Lou Jocobs, Jr.
Golden Gate Jr. Books, 8344 Melrose Ave., Los
Angeles 69, Colif. Pp. 79. $3.75.

World of Water, The, Erle Stanley Gardner. Wm.
Morrow, 425 Park Ave. S., New York 10016.
Pp. 160. $5.00.

SPORTS, PHYSICAL EDUCATION

Cross-Country Ski Book, The, Johnny Coldwell.
Stephen Greene Press,-Brottleboro, Vt. Pp. 80.
Paper, $1.95 (hordbound, $3.50).

Come Pony Trekking with Me, Veronico Heoth:

Sportshelf, P.O. Box 634, New Rochelle, N. Y.
Pp. 158. $3.75.

Deer Hunter's Guide, The, Froncis E. Sell. Stock-

pole Co., Horrisburg, Pennsylvanio. Pp. 192.
$5.00.

Encyclopedia of Firearms, Horold L. Peterson, Ed-
itor. E. P. Dutton, 20] Pork Ave. 5., New York
10003. Pp. 367. $10.95.

Figure Skating For Beginners, John Noel.
Nelson, 18 E. 41st St.,
126'. $2.50.

First and Fastest, Richord Hough, Editor. Horper
0nd Row, 49 E. 33rd St., New York 10016. PP.
229. $3.50.

International Research in Sport and Physical Ed-
ucation, E. Jokl ond E. Siman. Chorles Thomos,
301-27 E. Lawrence Ave., Springfield, Ill. Pp.
730. $29.50.

Intramural and Recreation Programs for Schools
and Colleges, Viola K. Kleindienst and Arthur
Weston. Appleton-Century-Crofts, 440 Pork
Ave. S., New York 10016. Pp. 559. $6.95.

Thos.
New York 10017. Pp.

 

MAGAZINE ARTICLES

 

AMERICAN CITY, August 1965
How to Use Your.Competed Landfills.
Trailers Help to Soive Park Refuse Problem.
Soil Sealant Plugs a Leak, H. S. Raymond.
Put Your Leaves to Work, Chorles W. Bell.

CHURCH RECREATION, October-November De-

cember 1965

Use Those Experts, Oko T. Hester.

Whether "9" or "90" (shell collecting), Agnes
Gibbs Ford. _

Games on Wheels (roller skating), Ernie Liebig.

Senior Adults and Christmas Cratts, Mory
Humphrey Eisenhouer.

 

HAPPY, HEALTHY CHILDREN

are the aim ofUNICEF

THE UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN’S FUND

0n Halloween, American boys and girls promote this
goal through the Trick or Treat Program. UNICEF
VOLUNTEERS ARE NEEDED to help organize a local pro-
gram. Three out of four of all the world’s children
still need UNICEF’s aid. YOU can play' an important part
in this great venture—help children to help children!

F——____—__________-l

U.S. Committee for UNICEF,
P.O. Box 1618,

Church Street Station, N.Y., N.Y. 10008

[I Send Trick or Treat for UNICEF information

E] Send a Trick or Treat for UNICEF kit, con-
taining all necessary materials for 35 chil-
dren (50¢ enclosed herewith)

Name

 

Address

 

City

 

r' .
State Zip

 

I_____.__._._._.__..__

1

1d Place Crafts (crafts), Richmond 0. Brc
Christmas on the Ranch (party for iunioi.
Emily Filipi.
PARENTS' Mogozine, September 1965 .
Give Them a Chance to Dance, Judie Kass.-

Let's Make Our Playgrounds Safer, R01
Charles.

REHABILITATION LITERATURE, July 1965
Some Basic Concepts in Social Group Wonk m

Recreation with the Mentally Retail
Meyer Schreiber, M.S.W.

Physical Fitness of Mentally Retarded Boys i
lated to National Age Norms, Julion‘
Stein.

SATURDAY REVIEW, August 28, 1965
How I Became a Dancer, Mortho Graham.
The Questing Camera, Margoret R. Weissu

SPORTS ILLUSTRATED, July 26, 1965

Jouncy Journey in a New Parkland (Com):
lands), Alice Higgins.

, August 2, 1965
The Positive Power of Boating.

, August 9, 1965
A Dry Silence in the Northeast (drought), R-f

 

 

 

ert Contwell. f
The Beach House Made of Aluminum 56};
wiches. ('
, August 23, 1965
Ole! for the Brave Club Taurino (bullif:
fans). It
The Old Men of the Sea (sport diving), Ci
Phinizy
The Thrill of the Safari in My Backyard, Q
Conawoy.

 

 

, August 30, 1965
The Bird, The Vow, and the Child, Bil Gite.

TODAY'S HEALTH, September 1965
Grad Schaolers Strike Up the Rhythm he

The Northern Montana Loop (vacotionlarf
Kenneth N. Anderson.

WOMAN'S DAY, September 1965
California's Little Skunk Railroad. Happi-
Is a Pair of Dirty Sneakers, Elise Gibbs.
Women in Government, Charles A. Cerd
Peruvian Children's Embroidery.
Silver Jewelry (Workshop project).

 

Vote “Yes” for Park '

Continued from Pagef.’

W
campaign. Posters were made, and-

carefully planned brochure was printe

The last four days before electii
were action filled. Volunteers mann-
the information booth, distributed lité
ature, and answered questions at tl
front doors of department stores 31
banks. About sixty volunteers got (
their home phones to remind the citia
to vote and to vote yes for the measure
Jaycee members and volunteers ili
tributed the article reprints and the l"

chures on a door—to-door basis. .'
l

   
 
   
   
  
  
 
 
  
  

0n voting day, volunteers borro
megaphones, got in their cars.
drove around the neighborhoods t
mind people to vote. Jaycee mem
checked the precincts at intervals
directed the “megaphoners” to t
areas where the voters were particul
dilatory in coming out.
aimed for a forty percent turnou
this special election. F arty-three
cent of the voters actually did vote

The long hours and hard work ii
last few days, coupled with the enc
agement of maximum public parti
tion in the formative stages of the
sowed the seeds of victory. if:

RECREA

o A BOOK

How l-ONG . 0N PIONIIIIIIS I '
W||_|_ . - IN PUBLIC RttltlAllOt
‘ b Geor e D. Butler
THIS prilegiiillsl:35052219353. ifn‘éi‘itit‘iti
I SWING 8
LAST 9

 
  

lic recreation—men and women who first per-
ceived the need for recreation agencies, who
founded them, and who shaped their philoso-
phies and services. The persons selected have

served in public or community recreations
smce before World War 1.

Workers and students in recreation need to
realize the influence which these pioneers had

 
 
  
   

WF PON'T_KN0W FOR §URE ourfirst SWing set is on various aspects of the movement in order to
St'” "1 59"“‘39- "was bU|It35 Years ago. gain a better understanding .of their field.
When you buy Playground or Recreational ThlS resource book 18 designed for almost
Equipment, specify Burke Better Built_ any graduate or undergraduate course and IS
unequaled for QUALITY DURABILITY and SAFETY a valuable a1d for every profess10nal 1n the rec-
' ' reation field. It is a permanent investment—
unlike many texts, it will not require revision.
J. EI  col 1965 e 6" x 9” e 240 page: 0 sewed cloth 0 illustrated 0 $6.00
By” Fond Du Lac, Wis. New Brunswick, New Jersey New catalog sent upon request—Order from Dept. R0 5

,, , .sa PUBLISHING
1 Quality Heavy Duty Playground Equipment  COMPANY
. u 426 South 6th St. 0 Minneapolis, Minn. 55415

 

Star-spangled savings plan

I (How it can help you to a well-provided future)

l

‘ Most of us think about the future in terms double assignment? You’ll be joining mil-
of our families—paying off the mortgage, lions of American families Who are invest-
educating the children, providing a retire- ing in their country’s future——and you’ll
ment income. probably find that you feel pretty good

But with the world the way it is today, abOUt the Wh013 thing-
it’s almost impossible to make plans for
1 your own future without considering the

Quick facts about Series E Savings Bonds
future of your country, too.

V You get back $4 for every $3 at maturity (7%

When you buy U. S. Savings Bonds, years)
your money takes on both jObS_ It begins V Your Bonds are replaced free if lost, destroyed
I _ or stolen
L to grow: surely and SteadllYa to help you V You can get your money when you need it
reach your savings goals and bmld your V You pay no state or local income tax and can
} fi - 1 h defer (payment of federal tax until the Bonds are
At the same time: UnCIe sam uses these Buy E Bonds for growth—H lands for current income

dollars to help reach our national goals of
peace and security.

Why not give your savings dollars this

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds

STAR-SPANGLED SAVINGS PLAN
FOR ALL AMERICANS *ji‘

«W'E
' a ' The U. S. Government does not pay for this adverttscment. it is presented as a public
1‘ (“a service in cooperation with the Treasury Department and The Adverttsmg Council.

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

    

Sp‘ace contributed as a public service by this magazine.

Photo contributed by
Richard Keller

      

Our young people belong up, living a wholesome life. Your gift helps pro-
vide recreational facilities and guidance for children and teen-agers the
whole year ’round. Point the way to good citizenship. Give generously.

Your One Gift Works Many Wonders/THE UNITED WAY/ @

25 million families benefit from child care, family service, youth guidance, health programs and services for the armed forces through 34.500 United W3!

